The market has been driven by what's
happening globally.
>> We could break out to the low side on
equities.
>> Broader risks to energy supply have to
be monitored and likely priced
>> despite this jump that we've seen in
oil. We are going to have that backdrop
continuing around earnings growth. The
underlying fundamentals are still pretty
positive and people want to own this
equity market. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, oil hits triple digits.
>> We figured oil prices would go up, which
they will. They'll also come down.
>> The oil is there. You're seeing a little
bit of fear premium in the marketplace.
This is a short-term disruption for the
long-term gain.
>> Key producers cutting output, sending
crude through 100, pushing G7 officials
to consider releasing energy reserves as
neither the US or Iran is showing signs
of backing down. We begin this hour with
our top story. The price of oil surging
following a weekend of escalatory
strikes. Iran continuing to target
several Gulf nations. Israel beginning
to target energy infrastructure, heaping
pressure on G7 officials who according
to people familiar with the matter are
set to discuss a possible joint release
of crude reserves. That discussion
happening later this morning.
>> And that's the reason why you're not
seeing oil at 120 this morning. It has
come down to about $100 a barrel, only a
10% gain versus something more in the
line of 25% a gain in oil prices. Look,
this has only been carried out five
times before. this idea of a coordinated
release twice in response to Russia's
invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Before
that, you had Libya as well as hurricane
uh Katrina as well as during the first
Gulf War. This would be something that
is a fairly rare step, but it highlights
the sphere of disruption that you're
seeing right now when it comes to such a
key market and how this really does seem
to threaten global economy.
>> This really is the only available offset
right now, the only push back we've
seen, the only blinking if we can call
it there from G7 officials. The
president's not backing down. This quote
from him over the weekend, short-term
oil prices, which will drop rapidly when
the destruction of the Iran nuclear
threat is over, is a very small price to
pay.
>> What's fascinating to me is that markets
are believing that if you take a look at
the forward contract of oil, you can see
that people don't expect there to be
this prolonged bout of oil prices above
$100 a barrel. It is priced in that by
December they'll be back down to $80 a
barrel. People are expecting this to be
over in a couple of weeks. The mechanism
to trigger that end, that off-ramp, is
potentially the markets. And yet, the
markets are not displaying a sense that
there is abject fear of truly an economy
globally that's going to get disrupted.
So, a real question about why this
dissonance exists and how long it can
continue.
>> It depends which market you're looking
at right now. Because if you check out
the European bond curve, check this out.
Over in the UK, yields up at the front
end of the curve by 20 basis points.
Similar moves across the continent as
well. We're pricing out cuts. with
pricing and hikes as set on central
banks.
>> Yeah, you didn't say hike, you said
hikes. And that's because there are two
rate hikes now being priced into uh the
ECB in terms of the forward-looking uh
calendar for this year. There is one
hike being priced in for the Bank of
England. So again, it's fascinating. Is
this just a single mandate central bank
where they have to look at inflation and
counter that? At what point does some of
the weakness that we've seen in a number
of economies and what could transpire as
a result of oil prices start to play
into exactly how they respond? We've
thrown a lot of this market in the last
week, haven't we? Just in an hour on
Friday, a energy shock, a payroll shock,
and another shock in private credit.
>> What struck me in the United States is
how uh multifaceted people keep saying
it is. How there are parts of the
complex, whether it's oil, whether it's
materials that'll benefit from this that
can offset potentially the shock to
private credit or what we're seeing with
respect to uh the economy. I just wonder
at what point you see a pillar that
shakes. At what point this is just
people who don't want to sell their
stocks because ultimately they don't
want to have to buy them back at a
higher price and they have been
conditioned by buy the dip, buy the dip,
buy the dip and suddenly they can't even
recognize something that's staring them
in their faces.
>> It's another Monday morning that started
Sunday evening. Wild ride for crude.
Equity futures negative just 1% on the
S&P 500. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth with global markets selling off.
Henry betrays the faded partners as
President Trump downplays rising crude
costs and Sabbatra Japper of Sockjen as
inflation fears steer investors away
from bonds. Our team coverage starts
right now with Bloomberg's Jamaa Beti
joining us out of Dubai. Jamala, welcome
to the program. What's the latest in the
region right now?
>> Well, as you guys were saying there no
signs at all that things are
deescalating and if anything uh
intensifying militarily operations on
both sides. I will say that the
appointment of the new supreme leader is
an act of defiance out of Iran. As you
know, uh the son of Ali Kam has now been
appointed as the successor, the third
supreme leader of Iran. Uh he's quite
literally cut off the same cloth of his
father. Uh same ideology. He's perceived
to be very close to the revolutionary
guard court, the IGC, very entrenched
with the security establishment as well.
In 2019, he was placed under US
sanctions and has also been accused of
interfering with elections and being
involved in many of those brutal
crackdowns that we've seen on
demonstrators. So, you know, if you tie
it back to what President Trump was
saying over the weekend that he would
like to see a full and unconditional
surrender, this is not an appointment
that would suggest that the Iranian
regime or the Islamic Republic are
looking to surrender or to yield to the
US demands anytime soon. At the same
time, operations continue. uh IDF saying
that they st they struck 400 targets
over the last 24 hours. And Iran
continues lashing back at uh Israel and
at Gulf States. Uh more than 2,000
projectiles have been fired towards Gulf
States over the course of the weekend uh
since the beginning of the war, I should
say, but over the course of the weekend
continue to target key sites and energy
infrastructure. Just this morning,
another refinery from the region in
Bahin also declared force measure. Uh
they've had multiple attempts at
targeting an oil field in Saudi Arabia.
The US State Department is now ordering
non-essential personnel to leave um the
the US embassy in Saudi Arabia. More
intercepted missiles being directed at
the UAE. Reports of a fire earlier in
Fujera as well. And then in Bahin also
and this is one other point of
escalation. A desalination plant was
targeted. Now, it did cause damage, but
the messaging from the authorities is
that water supplies are still running.
But again, it just um really illustrates
the amount of economic cost that the
Iranian regime are looking to inflict,
not just on the region, but on the
global economy as well.
>> And that right there is a highly
concerning escalation over the weekend.
Jamanna, thank you. Jam Beti in Dubai.
Just to build on what Jamanna was
talking about there, Iran doubling down
on hardline leadership and also reports
over the weekend suggesting the
president is considering a special
ground operation as well
>> because the uranium is evidently still
there in terms of the refined uranium
that a lot of people were worried could
get developed into nuclear weaponry.
This is the question, how far is this
president willing to go and is that the
red line, the ability of eliminating uh
that uranium threat?
>> Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth writing the following. We expect
equity market volatility to continue.
Weakness is viable. Gone are the days of
low volatility and mount up markets.
Cameron joins us now for more. Cam, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Did you expect to see equities where
they're trading this morning after the
move overnight in crude?
>> Well, as of the close on Friday, we were
a whopping 3 and a half% off of all-time
highs. And so, we wouldn't be surprised
if this volatility continues. We see no
sign of flush within markets. If you
look at the technicals, breath measures,
percentage of names above their 50-day
is still at about 42%. You haven't seen
signs of indiscriminate selling, which
just says that markets have taken this
very much in stride and this isn't the
point yet where people are so scared,
have so much fear that you want to back
up the truck. So that just suggests to
us prepare for more volatility.
Eventually that volatility will create
great buying opportunities when we see
indiscriminate selling, but we're
probably not there yet. Why is this
market so resilient in the face of not
only an external shock but also what we
saw on Friday that everybody seems to be
shrugging off which is there seemed to
be cracks in the actual fundamental
economy at the same time. We think this
is the big risk because if you look at
2026 and 2027 earnings estimates,
they're expecting about 14% growth each
year, which we don't think is consistent
in an environment where you're not
seeing job additions and you're seeing
an oil price shock because that's how
this impacts overall consumers. That's
the one way that conflicts end up
impacting overall earnings growth. And
so given the fact that you have very
very rosy expectations for both 26 and
27, I think that's one of the things
that people are hanging their hat on for
why this market can be sustained. But we
actually think that there is downside
risk to those estimates.
>> How much is the US once again providing
sort of the haven trade given the fact
that Europe is getting hit that much
harder that European stocks are actually
in a correction from their February
highs that you see people flooding back
into the dollar? Well, you're seeing it
certainly in the dollar. And it's
important to note we went into this oil
price shock and this conflict with the
dollar positioning near record lows. So,
everybody was short the dollar.
Everybody was underweight the dollar,
which just suggested that the pain trade
of the dollar was actually higher, which
is exactly how this is playing out. the
three shocks that we've been tracking
payrolls, energy supply, private credit
as well, those redemption headlines, the
creek crossing the Bloomberg terminal,
the accumulation of those risks, are
they an index level threat or not?
Because at the moment the index is not
doing much at all.
>> Yeah, I I think that one of the things
that we've seen over the course of the
first two months of this year is what we
were calling a risk swap market instead
of risk off, meaning that people were
swapping out of risks out of things like
AI disruption into areas that were
inherently risky themselves. Look at the
flows into things like industrials and
materials and energy of course which we
know is a little bit of a different
story but people were still keeping this
broader cyclical bin built uh bid under
the market that's starting to
deteriorate. That's why we're starting
to see breadth begin to deteriorate. So
we think it's really hard to justify
spending 27 times forward on industrials
in an environment where you're
questioning forward growth.
>> What is left to anchor the bullish view
the bullcase for the year ahead
>> that this would be temporary? that
that's the the one thing that keeps this
as a bullish view is that the price
spike higher in oil ends up being
something that is incredibly
short-lived. I think the challenge we
have is that even if oil comes off of
its highs, it's unlikely to return to
where it was before simply because of
the destruction that we've seen to the
infrastructure. Also, remember back in
2022, oil prices spiked and hit their
high just a few weeks after the Russian
invasion of Ukraine. But gasoline prices
didn't peak until the summer, meaning
that we saw gasoline prices go to $5 a a
gallon. We saw overall headline US
inflation hit 9%. So, we could have an
environment where WTI comes off of its
highs, but it still pressures US
consumers because gasoline prices would
continue their march higher. How long do
we have until the oh moment in markets?
The whole sort of this question of what
are we going to see going forward? poly
market has a 46% odds right now of a US
Iran ceasefire by April 30th. I assume
that will be devastating in terms of the
timeline if that were to bear out.
>> Yeah, I think that that is a very long
way away and and each and every week
that goes by with oil prices and
gasoline prices which are now up on a
year-over-year basis for the first time
in three years. This is important.
Remember the fact that over the last
three years, we've been in a
disinflationary environment because of
falling oil prices. We've had a boost to
consumers because of falling oil prices.
So, two months forward of oil prices at
these levels will certainly start to
weigh on GDP estimates. And remember,
risk assets do not like falling growth
estimates. And we're starting this
energy price shock with growth estimates
for GDP at 2 and a.5% pretty wholesome.
And again, back to EPS, which are really
high in that 14%.
>> Cam, it's always good to catch up.
Thanks for being here. Cameron Dawson
there of New Edge Wealth. No rest in
this market right now. Futures negative
by about 1% on the S&P 500. This from
Jordan Rochester of Missouo this
morning. The market is waking up from
its slumber. Coming around to our view
that this may be a war, but it's also
perhaps the biggest energy supply
logistics crisis we've ever seen in
modern history. The latest from Missouo
>> talking about how currently $100 a
barrel is where we are currently at.
However, the longer this goes on, the
greater the likelihood that it goes to
130 to $150
per barrel. And if that's the case, it's
a very different scenario for global
markets. How long does it take until we
get there? Right? I mean, how much can
people absorb given the fact that right
now it seems like markets are saying,
look, we don't want to be ending up with
oil with stock prices that much higher
and being behind the curve and buying in
>> a massive gap higher than we saw in
crude at the open overnight. This
morning, we're up by double digits. Up
by 12% on Brent, 104 off the highs on
WTI 101. Up next on the program, a fair
premium for crude.
>> We are suffering high prices not in
natural gas but in oil because it's a
globally connected market. The oil is
there. You're seeing a little bit of
fear premium in the marketplace.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Henry Trees
of Vader Partners live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
8:30 Eastern time. have an important
call with G7 finance ministers
considering the release of energy
reserves following some major moves
overnight in the crude market. Check it
out at the highs pushing 120 11950
the high of the session on Brent right
now just short of 105 a move of more
than 12% weighing on equity futures
futures down by 1% on the S&P 500
likewise on the NASDAQ by 1.14 on the
Russell down by close to 2% Brammo so
far this morning
>> yeah the Russell being slammed on a
couple different fronts not only do you
have a question of oil price sensitivity
with consumers but also a question of
whether the Fed can cut rates well the
answer is well it seems less likely
given the inflationary pressures and it
seems right now people are focused more
on the inflationary pressures than
weakness seeming to seemingly coming
from the underlying employment market.
>> The Fed between a rock and a hard place
right now that's for sure. Under
surveillance this morning, a fair
premium for crude.
We are suffering high prices not in
natural gas but in oil because it's a
globally connected market. We're
communicating with our allies abroad.
The oil is there. You're seeing a little
bit of fear premium in the marketplace
but the world is not short of oil today
or natural gas. We are nowhere near
normal traffic right now and you know
and that that that'll take some time but
again worst case that that's a few weeks
that's not months.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump saying oil surge is a
very small price to pay as hopes fade
for a quick resolution to the war in
Iran. G7 minister said to meet today
about the possible release of emergency
oil reserves. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now from Washington for more.
Good morning Tyler. Where's this one
going?
>> Yeah. Hey John. Good morning. Well, at
this point, it appears that the
administration is trying to downplay the
spike in oil, as the US energy secretary
maintains, this will not be a long-term
conflict, and we've heard from other US
officials framing this as a short-term
disruption for the long-term gain of the
US trying to achieve its goals in Iran.
The thing is, we haven't seen any uh
intent or notice that there's going to
be a diplomatic off-ramp anytime soon as
major Middle East producers curb
production. in the street of Hermuz
remains effectively closed and the White
House is now threatening to widen the
conflict. In a post on Truth Social over
the weekend, President Trump said that
the US is now considering striking other
areas and groups of people in Iran not
previously considered to be targets,
though he did not elaborate. So far, it
appears most of the strikes have been
targeted against government and military
sites rather than a full-scale bombing
of infrastructure. Secretary Wright made
that point when it came to energy
infrastructure, though Israel did hit
several Iranian fuel depots over the
weekend. And in another potential
escalation, Bloomberg News now reporting
that President Trump is weighing a
special operation to go into Iran to
extract its highlyenriched uranium
stockpile. John, as you well know, uh,
this White House is already playing
defense when it comes to affordability
concerns, and those prices are starting
to trickle down to retail gasoline. And
you mentioned one of those potential
options to help curb those costs as G7
finance ministers meet later today to
discuss a strategic release of reserves.
This would only be uh one of uh five
times that this has happened before,
though people familiar with the matter
do caution that no decision has been
made.
>> Ter Kendall with the latest in
Washington DC. Tyler, thank you. The
words of the president, short-term oil
prices, which will drop rapidly when the
destruction of the Iranian nuclear
threat is over, is a very small price to
pay. For many, it's a high price to pay.
Henrie's evaded partners writing fears
of $4 gasoline are being pulled forward.
Republicans, including in the White
House, are scrambling to contain the
fallout. Henrietta joins us now for
more. Henrieta, welcome to the program.
What signs, what indication do you have
that anyone scrambling to contain this?
>> Well, they're doing the Lord's work
trying to present a calm front on the
outside. The president is down in
Dorado, Florida this week talking about
an elections reform bill that focuses on
mail-in ballots and transgender sports
issues. So, they're trying to project
calm and talking about this being
transitory. But when you're already just
on day 10 of any kind of military
engagement, we're already talking about
a 50 to$150 billion emergency
supplemental spending package. Uh that
is your indication that we have upended
the legislative agenda. We will not be
getting a crypto bill. I don't think
we'll get a housing bill. It's going to
be either all Republicans reconciliation
bill spending money to address this war
or bust. And that's the um agenda that
they're going to be talking about below
the surface today and this week in DA.
>> And how united are Republicans against
uh behind President Trump when it comes
to this war?
>> Uh not very. You're seeing a lot of
consternation. It's very public when it
does come out. Um it's mostly led by the
usual suspects. Uh Thomas Massie of
Kentucky is a Republican who is being
very blunt about his opposition and
you're seeing the breakdown. What you
really, what I would recommend is look
at the way that the Republicans are
responding to the president's in
treaties to repeal the filibuster to
pass the Save Act on that elections
package. There's just not support there.
Leadership can't pull it off. So when
Speaker Johnson says we're going to
prioritize the reconciliation bill, it's
because members behind the scenes are
saying if we're going to wage this war,
if we're going to stick behind the
president on this, we have to get
spending out the door. It needs to go to
farmers. $15 billion for the second
bailout because of course we're dealing
with the fertilizer impacts from the
straight of Hormuz. And we also need to
do something to bring prices down as we
go into the November elections. It seems
like markets don't believe the calm
being projected from the White House and
they do think that at a certain point,
prices rising and some of the distress
will pressure this White House to
capitulate. Are there any signs that
pressure from Republicans and pressure
from the oil markets is starting to
affect any of the strategy coming from
the White House?
Well, I think that the actions that we
see from the White House on tanker
insurance, on letting it be known that
there will be an emergency supplemental
request, on letting it be known that
there'll be a second farmers bailout.
That's indication that they recognize
there has to be some give on this. Um,
when the president does his military
campaign though, that is largely outside
of their control and that's I think
where we're seeing the headlines shock
the markets every single day. You know,
I was speaking with investors last week
who were saying this will be wrapped up
by Friday. Well, here we are on Monday.
Crude spiking through the roof in the
fastest ever growth and you have to
readjust your expectations, reset. Um
the SPR release or the G7 release of
strategic petroleum reserves is helpful
today, but you need a wide ranging sort
of bazooka to address a shutdown of the
straight of hormones, which is where we
are right now. Henrietta, as you
mentioned, that call takes place at 8:30
Eastern time between G7 finance
ministers considering discussing the
potential to release those reserves.
There is a much bigger question, I
think, for the US specifically, why the
SPR wasn't refilled ahead of this
moment,
>> especially when gas prices were so low.
It's a major strategic blunder, and you
have to question, was the president
prepared to go into this war and
recognize that the straight would be
shut down? What did they think was going
to happen? We had a year of very low
energy prices. Indeed, it was the
highlight of the president's economic
agenda to have gas prices low and you
could have refilled the SPR and instead
he chose not to. It just suggests that
they did not have their ducks in a row
when they went into this and now we
don't have the SPR failed. It's at, you
know, very low levels. And of course,
even when you do release the SPR, it's
heavy crude that needs to be refined.
It's not going to immediately fix
anything. It makes you feel better
perhaps, but it's not going to fix
anything in terms of $4 gas coming our
way.
>> I think many people tracking this market
are asking the same thing. China managed
to stockpile energy over the last 12
months. Why didn't the US when it was
the US that was decided to engage in
this conflict or not? Then these
headlines as well from the Treasury.
Henriet, I want your thoughts on this.
This from Secretary Besson. To ease the
temporary gap of oil around the world,
we've given them per permission to
accept the Russian crude. Talking of
India, we may unsanction other Russian
oil. In essence, by unsanctioning them,
Treasury can create supply. What's your
response to that?
Well, they I think it's just further
acknowledgement that they were not
prepared for this. They've spent all
last year putting sanctions on India, on
Iran, on Russia. They have, don't
forget, they're supposed to raise
tariffs under section 122 to 15% this
week. The White House has a completely
disjointed agenda from the energy
components to the tax components to the
tariffs. And they're trying to, as I
said before, cover every single base
because there's nothing you can do with
one silver bullet that will fix this
problem. You've got to do everything. So
if that means taking Russia sanctions
off, releasing the SPR, ensuring oil oil
tankers, providing a farmer's bailout,
you need to do every single one of those
things at once in order to keep gas from
getting to four bucks. And that's where
we're headed.
>> Henrietta, how much do you allow the US
to keep exporting LNG to Europe given
the fact that natural gas prices in the
US are also going up? I mean, do you
expect that to be a conflict?
>> Uh, it's definitely a tension point.
We've seen this movie before. You know,
when I think of the Russia Ukraine war,
I mean, this is something that I think
the United States ultimately is happy to
have a conversation about getting RNG
LNG over to the EU, making them a little
less dependent on Russia, on oil sources
that we'd prefer them not to go to. So,
I think that this is a a tried and
tested path of trying to deal and
resolve with that tension.
>> Henrietta, always good to catch up.
Thanks for being here. Henrietta Trace
there of Vader Partners. This
conversation follows our conversation
with the National Economic Council
director on Friday following the
payrolls report. Asked him specifically
about the SPR and whether there was an
active conversation about releasing any
energy from those reserves and the
answer was no. And it was pretty direct
and he didn't dance around the issue.
Many people asked that question over the
weekend. How did we get here without
refilling the SPR? And yes, the previous
administration has a lot to answer for,
but this is the one that's decided to go
and engage with Iran in the way it has
done. And we had pretty low oil prices
for quite a long time with people saying
refill it. Just to give you a sense of
how low it is, the US SPR strategic
petroleum reserve has about 21 days
worth of consumption. That is the lowest
in decades. It raises a question even if
you were to release it. How much oomph
would it have to really lower prices in
a longer term way?
>> Triple digit crude this morning up by
12% so far intraday. Up next on the
program, Joyce Chang of JP Morgan as
markets react to soaring crude prices.
When does demand destruction kick in?
Joyce is coming up next. Plus, Lizzy has
your morning movers. Energy stocks
moving higher with crude prices hitting
100 plus. Exxon up by 810. Accidental
petroleum up by 1.4. From New York City
this morning, good morning. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Two-day losing streak on the S&P 500
about to become day three. Equity
futures negative 1% on the S&P well off
session lows. On the NASDAQ, we're down
by 1.2. Omni Russell small caps
underperforming down by 2%. The main
event, the epicenter of the price action
worldwide. This right here, energy, Bren
WTI, Brent crude up 28% last week, up
29% overnight and off those highs now up
13 to 105. The spill through, the spill
over into the bond market very clear.
Yields higher across the curve state
side much more worldwide. Twos's up by 5
to 360. 10's pushing 420 up by four
basis points this morning. As you said,
it is a lesser move than what we're
seeing over in Europe where suddenly
you've got two rate hikes being priced
into the market. The reason is twofold.
On one hand, the US economy is more
resilient naturally is also an oil
exporter. The European region is more
sensitive to these oil price shocks as
well as it is a single mandate central
bank. They have to respond to inflation
primarily and that is the reason why
people are looking at a very different
path ahead for them. the tightening of
financial conditions worldwide. Higher
crude prices, higher bond yields,
pricing out easing and pricing in the
prospect, the real potential of rate
hikes. As we count you down to the
opening bell about 3 hours away, let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Lizzie Burden has more. Hey
Lizzie. Hey John. We have to start with
the oil story. As you say, oil above
$100 a barrel. So take a look at the
energy names. We've already seen gains
in the Europe session for the likes of
BP and Shell. We've seen gains for Saudi
Aramco as well in the pre-market. Exxon
Mobile, Chevron, Oxident Intental, all
in the green. Aside from energy, there
aren't that many winners to be found in
the pre-market, but Hims and Hers is one
of them. Up nearly more than 50% in the
pre-market on the news that it's public
feud with Novo Nordisk is at an end.
Novo agreeing reportedly to sell its
weight loss drugs on the HIMS platform.
But don't forget about this time last
year, they reached a similar agreement
and it fell at the 11th hour because
HIMS reportedly didn't want to stop
marketing and selling its own copycat
medication. So, will this deal get over
the line? Traders looking optimistic
that it will. Just finally, let's turn
over to Live Nation. We had a redhead
crossing the terminal earlier on that it
was nearing a settlement with the
Department of Justice on the antitrust
uh trial that had been going on. Of
course, the accusation is that Live
Nation is illegally monopolizing the
live music industry. And this concern
goes all the way back to the Obama
administration, which had allowed Live
Nation, of course, to acquire uh Ticket
Master. So, the settlement discussions
heating up since the trial started on
March the 2nd, and we report that that
could be announced in the coming days.
Shares up more than 5% in the
pre-market. John
>> Lizzy, thanks for the update. Appreciate
it. Lizzie Burton there out of London
this morning on a radar this morning.
The price of crude breaking through $100
a barrel for the first time since 2022.
G7 finance ministers preparing to
discuss the joint release of reserves as
the war with Iran continues to disrupt
energy flows. Elsewhere, Iran announcing
its new supreme leader signaling the
country would not back down from the
conflict. President Trump denouncing
Thrron's choice of the hardline son of
Ayatala Alikani as unacceptable. And
finally, White House press secretary
Caroline Levit dismissing concerns over
rising crude prices, insisting that
President Trump's energy dominance
strategy will stabilize markets.
>> With respect to what's happening with
gas prices right now, this is a
short-term disruption for the long-term
gain. We're seeing a slight increase in
oil and gas prices, but ultimately
taking out the rogue Iranian regime is
going to be a good thing for the oil
indust industry, and those prices are
going to come back down. The president
posting on social media that the crude
spike is a quote small price to pay for
safety and for peace.
>> Getting the population as well as fellow
Republicans on board with this is going
to be somewhat more difficult.
Interesting that it seems like there is
a timeline. You were speaking with the
National Economic Council director uh
Kevin Hassid on Friday. He said that
there was a timeline. He wasn't going to
disclose it. I'm very curious about
that. Is this calm reflecting some sort
of timeline that has a short uh short
leash or can you get out of it in that
type of time? I think that's the concern
given how it has been escalated.
>> This phrase you keep hearing ahead of
schedule implies there is a schedule.
It's the question I asked. Of course,
they're not going to share us the
schedule even if there was one. But
reports over the weekend suggesting that
they're still considering a special
operation, a ground incursion to secure
uranium tells you that maybe this plan
isn't fully secure.
>> And that goes the question of what is
the ultimate goal? How fungeible is it?
Is it just a question of dearming uh
Iran? What does that look like? Dearming
them currently or dearming them in the
future given that enriched uranium is
still missing and supposedly reports
over the weekend talking about how there
still are uh pathways to go retrieve
some of that enriched uranium which
clearly has gotten the concern of the
White House.
>> Feels like the cos are moving in real
time. That's for sure. Crude's moving in
real time. 105 on PN WTI just north of
102. Surging crude prices driving
stagflation trades worldwide. Joyce
Chank of JP Morgan writing, "We expect
volatility to remain high in the near
term, putting upward price pressure on
oil and gas and impacting inflation and
impacting growth." Joyce joins us now
for more. Joyce, good morning.
>> Hey, good to be here.
>> Is that a stlflation shock?
>> Well, I mean, we've run two different
scenarios at JP Morgan. We've looked at
the spike that we've seen to 120, but
does it settle at 80? And then you take
about half a percent off of growth. You
add 1% to inflation, but you don't
necessarily stop the global expansion.
But oil at 120, you take a full 1.2
percentage point off of growth. You have
inflation risks that are higher. And you
know, we don't see the off-ramp yet. So
the risk premium here is going to stay
high. I think
>> what did we learn in 2022 when we had a
similar move? How different is this
economic backdrop?
>> Well, I think that um you know this
economic backdrop is different just
because uh the prospects for regime
change, the off-ramp, the negotiation
processes uh you know is is not there.
But you also see that some of the oil
infrastructure is beginning to be hit
right now. So I think that um you know
there are some um you know commonalities
to 2022 but we also have to just look at
the fact that you know we are in a
situation right now where we're only a
week or so into this and you know we
were going into year five now and
looking at uh you know what has happened
on some of these other conflicts which
have haven't been resolved. So the
market is looking for just what the
offramp could be
>> and right now they're almost counting on
an offramp. they can't see. How do you
explain the market's relative I don't
want to say complacency uh but
resilience in the face of a shock that
could be quite damaging?
>> I think there's a sense that this level
of bombing cannot be sustained even
though you could have similar to 2022
like a very long slog ahead. Uh there's
no doubt about that as far as just um
you know what this conflict means over
the longer term. But can this level of
bombing you know be sustained? Um and I
think that the um key issue that
everyone is looking at right now is that
um you know what are the you know you
know options here. So there's the G7
emergency meetings that are coming up.
Um there are the questions about just
how you make sure that more oil isn't
taken off of the market and we think
that um about three and a half million
barrels per day have been impacted. So
there is this question of uh the effect
on growth as you were just talking about
should oil remain above $100 $120 a
barrel. And there's a question about the
momentum the US economy had going into
this. I was really struck by how many
people shrugged off the labor market
report that we got in Friday or said it
doesn't fit with other data that we've
gotten. It doesn't really represent
weakness in the underlying US economy.
Do you think some of the strength has
been overstated?
>> Well, look, we have been looking at the
labor market weakness um you know for
some time right now. um not just the AI
disruption but the impact of you know um
you lower immigration as well and we
just haven't seen that much labor demand
that's there. So I think the sticky
inflation the fact that you've had the
labor market weakness some of the retail
numbers that came out were also showing
signs of weakness um as well. So it's a
time to you know look at the risk
premium to stay elevated and to put more
hedges on. I think
>> Governor Wallace clearly voting for a
rate cut at the next meeting based on
what he told us and it looks like the
strength we saw at the start of the year
is looking like a bit of a head fake. Is
he going to have some company the next
meeting?
>> We um have been out of consensus. We
have not had rate cuts in our forecast
and even before this occurred and we
just felt that um you know the um you
know inflation numbers just did not
point to that. So we see that this uh on
hold you know being the what where the
market is going to you know have to stay
just given the macro data that's coming
out
>> outside of energy. What's the source of
inflation?
>> Well I I mean I think you still have
very um sticky prices um you know that
that have not come down. I mean we're at
year six of not hitting the inflation
target. So this is not necessarily new
news but the case for rate cuts isn't
there. Now there's much more concern
about the stagflation risk given um the
questions about what the economic growth
forecast will be.
>> We've been talking about these three
shocks and John laid them out earlier in
the show. The idea of on one hand the
oil price shock that's the most recent
one. Then of course you've got the AI
shock and questions uh with that and
then of course you've got the private
credit which is sort of intertwined with
AI. With respect to AI, you think that
that has already been played out that
we're not going to necessarily have
those concerns that continue to mount
and that we're going to go back to some
of those sort of feelings of uh
confidence in the technology. Why do you
think that's the case?
>> Well, I think look, the capex growth
numbers for AI still remain very strong.
I mean, we had started the year thinking
it'd be uh you know, north of 30% for
the MAG 7 actually raise that even if it
comes down. you have very strong capex
growth that is um you know in motion
right now for AI and the AI adoption is
still underway. So I would sort of put
that story not merge all three of these
stories that you put together. Um I
think private credit is not one that we
see as systemic. Um you know at this
point um you know the AI it seems to me
that you're probably past the worst of
the concerns on the software and we've
been overweight um software versus semis
um which has played out but it's a
period where we do think that being in
investment grade credit makes more sense
than being in equities right now. At
what point do high oil prices pressure
these other stories, whether it comes to
AI and the energy consumption or whether
it comes to private credit and the need
for the consumer to keep having
discretionary spending power?
>> So, it depends on whether this is a
short-term shock. Um, you know, if we
see oil settling at 80, I mean, it's
half a percent off of growth. It's 1%
higher in inflation, but it doesn't
necessarily break the global expansion.
If you see oil staying at these levels
and persisting through the middle of the
year, that's when you really have to
talk about, you know, a much more
serious markdown in the forecast.
>> Joyce, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by.
>> Joyce Chang of JP Morgan there on the
energy market and what it means for this
economy. It is a major energy shock. A
move from the 70s in the 60s not so long
ago and into the 100s, triple digits and
pushing 120 overnight. A major move at
the open in Asia.
>> It was the biggest move ever last week
when it comes to WTI. the biggest moves
since the 1990 Gulf War when it comes to
Brent crude. A question of what can some
of the global powers do to mitigate
this? Is it really just tapping their
SPRs? Is that going to be enough to save
off this shock? And then once those are
used up, then what?
>> You've got to show a path to
deescalation to get this market to
deescalate and repric crude lower. And
right now, I don't see one on either
side.
>> Well, and there is this issue of has
this conflict taken on a life of its own
when you have uh different powers
attacking one another's oil resources?
the deselination plants that was a very
big concern for a lot of people over the
weekend. This is how people get drinking
water. This is the classic
infrastructure that allows people to
live in a lot of these countries that
starts to get attacked. A very different
scenario emerges.
>> Futures this morning in the equity
market negative just 1% on the S&P 500
even with some major moves in the
commodity market. Let's give an update
on stories worldwide. Here's your
Bloomberg brief. Iran picking the son of
Ayatollah Alikmani as its new supreme
leader. The 56-year-old taking over from
his father who was killed in an attack
by the US and Israel. The president
saying he's unhappy with the
appointment. Elsewhere, crude nearing
120 a barrel this morning before pulling
back on a report of a joint release of
emergency reserves. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, the G7 ministers are
set to discuss the release at 8:30
Eastern time. The US is set to support
the idea. And finally, an IED was thrown
outside of the New York City May's
mansion in Manhattan. and the violence
erupting during an anti-Islam protest.
The protest drawing an even larger crowd
of counterprotesters who were accused of
throwing the explosive device. Six
people were arrested and the FBI is
launching a terrorism investigation.
That right there is your Bloomberg
brief. Up next on the program, a
stagflationary shock. As with any supply
side shock,
it can lead you in a stagflationary
direction. There's not an obvious
monetary policy answer to a
stagflationary shock.
>> Sebajra Sochen joins us next live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
What a move in energy overnight. What a
move this morning. Overnight the high
up by 29% after a 28% gain through last
week. The kind of moves that follow
major major shocks. The energy shock of
22 the pandemic of 20. This its own
beast and a beast it is. WTI 103 Brent
crude 105. In the equity market pulling
down equities right now across the board
on the S&P down by 1% on the NASDAQ down
by 1.2 two on the Russell down by two
percentage points and worldwide
triggering a bond market selloff with
yields higher across the curve state
side 2's 10 and 30s look like this up by
5% the 2-year at 361 that is nothing
compared to what you're seeing
developing in places like the UK
>> where suddenly you have one rate hike
being priced into the Bank of England
forecast for the year ahead in terms of
where things are trading look what we
have seen in terms of the market
response has been that the rest of the
world is much more exposed to an energy
shock than the United states is that's
the reason why you see European stocks
falling into a correction from the from
February highs. That's the reason why
the Cosby has been trading out of bed
because people seem to think that this
is sort of the risk asset of choice when
you go outside of the US and it raises
questions. Is it actually going to be
borne out in the economy or is this just
simply a knee-jerk reversal of some of
the consensus trades?
>> Nine basis point move at the front end
of the German curve, 25 basis point move
at the front end of the UK curve. That
is brutal. If you're looking for some
kind of offset to comfort consumers
right now, you're not getting it with
rate pricing at all.
>> Honestly, the United Kingdom has an even
more difficult scenario ahead of it than
the ECB, than the European region
because on one hand, you've got a weaker
backdrop economically at the same time
that you have a very sensitive household
to energy prices. So, you get a double
whammy. On one hand, borrowing costs are
going to be tightening at the same time
that you also are going to be having
higher bills. This is the stagflationary
shock that nobody wants. And this is the
headline we did not want to see. Saudi
Arabia starting oil output cuts as
storage fills up. If you can't move the
energy through the straight form, you
have to put much of it in storage. And
once you breach capacity, you have to
start cutting output. We saw it with
Iraq last week with Q8 into the weekend.
UAE followed. And this was the major
headline we've been waiting for. Saudi
Arabia starting to cut output as they
start to hit storage capacity. People
keep reminding us you cannot just turn
back on these supplies. It's not a
switch. It's actually a complicated
process that takes time. When you start
shutting down oil output, that prolongs
the period of time until we can
normalize. And that is the reason why
you get a response that continues to
expand as we get these headlines.
>> That's the breaking news this morning.
Brink crude high by 14% 10564 WTI 10320.
under Sylvanas this morning. A
stagflationary shock.
>> As with any supply side shock,
it can lead you in a stagflationary
direction, which is to say the the
inflation side of the mandate getting
worse. At the same time, the employment
side of the mandate is getting worse.
There's not an obvious monetary policy
answer to a stagflationary shock.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. and
global bond yields rising as the Iran
war stokes fears of higher inflation and
lower growth. Sabbatra Jaffra sochgen
writing, "We do not expect this positive
correlation between stocks and bonds to
persist. A stagflation-like environment
argues for policy on hold." Sabbatra
joins us now for more. Sabbatra, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> Is there a tipping point where this
becomes bullish for bonds and not
bearish?
Uh it's not going to happen anytime
soon. It seems like because of the fact
that you have this sort of move in
global bond yields and global bond
yields are moving quite dramatically
higher. As you noted earlier, guilt
yields are higher. Um you're seeing
higher yields in New Zealand and
Australia. So this global bond yields
moving higher is going to keep
treasuries higher as well. But I just
don't see treasuries really breaking out
of the range on either direction. So
yes, it's not a a good flight to quality
hedge in this environment because
typically when you tend to see stocks
sell off, you you see investors move to
the safety of bonds, but I also don't
see treasuries really moving out of the
out of the ranges that we've been uh in
the last uh you know few months.
>> So how much of a decoupling are you
expecting then with the US versus the
rest of the world because we're seeing
some big big moves developing in the UK
and elsewhere this morning.
>> Yeah, the US is energy independent. So a
lot of this story here in the US is more
a delaying of the the timing for the
easing. We're still priced in for close
to two cuts for this year. So there's
not really a big change in the outlook
for the Fed. That's not the case in the
rest of the world with the uh Bank of
England as well as uh you know the
expectations for the ECB have not only
switched from easing the markets now
pricing in for hikes. So this is a
pretty dramatic change in the outlook
for for for central banks. So for the
US, I would say it's more of a
stagflationary environment. The Fed
doesn't do anything. It translates into
lower growth. We were already looking at
very very strong growth for this year
coming into the year. Uh if anything,
we're going to get lower growth, but
it's not a really dire situation. That's
why I think Treasury yields remain
somewhat rangebound. Do you think that
the long end of the US yield curve is
rising because of rising inflation
expectations over the longer term or do
you think it's just in sympathy with the
rising yields elsewhere, maybe in Japan
or in Europe? I think it's more in
relation to what's happening globally.
If you look at inflation expectations,
yes, they're rising. They're rising more
in the very front end. That's what you
should see in an environment where it's
expectations that are being led by
higher energy costs. If you look at the
5year forward, 5year break even, which
is what the Fed looks at, it's actually
been coming lower because 2-year and
5year break evens have actually been
going higher. So that actually says that
the Fed is going to be credible
regardless. So, it's not an inflation
expectation story for me. It's more a
story of what happens over the near-
term with crude oil prices and higher
sort of uh front end break evens. If we
were in a vacuum and we looked at some
of the inflation prints, we're going to
get CPI and PCE this week. That was
would have been really important just to
understand how much the Fed could cut
after Friday's non-farm payrolls report.
We would have been talking about the
significance of rate cuts. Why is
everyone shrugging off the jobs backdrop
that looked pretty weak on Friday and
just focusing purely on inflation going
forward?
>> Because it's just one print. If you look
at the three-month averages, it's still
relatively strong. Yes, if you look
through the details of of the of the
labor market uh picture, the labor
market has been very much in stasis. So,
yes, am I concerned about the labor
market? Yes. But that said, I think that
the bigger concern for me is on the on
the inflation side. The Fed has eased
three times last year. Senica basis
points of preemptive cuts. The job
market remains relatively stable. We are
looking for cracks. But for the most
part, I think the focus is going to be
much more on inflation. Coming into the
year, it was about tariffs. It was it
was about the feed through into goods
inflation, maybe food inflation and
tariff related concerns. I think we're
still at peak uncertainty on tariffs. So
in that sort of context, now you throw
in the dynamics with with with higher
oil prices that really changes the the
outlook for headline inflation. So the
Fed is going to be very very focused on
what happens on the inflation side while
paying attention to the labor market,
but I think inflation is going to take
priority.
>> How do you think the outlook's changed
with triple digit crude? At the moment,
we've been closer to three than we have
to two on inflation. Are we getting
closer to four?
>> You know, it's it's going to be
transitory. I hate using that word. For
the most part, the Fed is going to be
willing to look through spikes in oil
prices, especially if you look at the
last, you know, two and a half decades
of geopolitical events. These events
tend to be somewhat uh near-term as in
like they're short-lived. The you see a
spike in oil prices, oil prices come
down. We're energy independent, so
that's not nearly much of a concern. So,
you're looking more across sort of what
happens once we get through this sort of
geopolitical concern as opposed to
something that's going to be uh long
lasting. So, that's part of the reason
why I think the market tends to discount
uh spikes in oil prices.
>> Sabbatra, always good to see you. Thanks
for being here. What a start to the
week. Sebatra Shapped there of Sockchen
on the bond market. This headline
crossed on a Bloomberg terminal just
moments ago. This from our team here at
Bloomberg News. Saudi Arabia started to
cut oil output as storage fills up.
We've talked about this dynamic a number
of times. It's about the movement of
energy. If you can't move the energy,
you have to store it somewhere. Now,
Saudi Arabia has some options. They have
an East West pipeline that can do some
of the heavy lifting. That can act as a
release valve. So the Saudis are
essentially telling you even with that
because the straight is closed. We're
getting closer and closer to breaching
storage capacity ahead of time. We're
cutting output.
>> Yeah. And they also have the off-ramp of
sending oil tankers through the Red Sea.
They have done more of that. Even that
hasn't been enough to offset this. So
now it's the United Arab Emirates,
Kuwait, as you mentioned earlier, uh
following Iraq. Now we've got Saudi
Arabia shutting down production as a
result of storage facilities filling up.
All of this just means longer timeline
for how long some of this uh production
can really normalize leading to
questions of do we have to change our
timeline when it comes to market prices.
>> And that headline, Bramo, that's a
massive offset to whatever we might hear
at 8:30 Eastern time when G7 ministers
get together and talk about releasing
reserves. That headline out of Saudi
Arabia is far more important, I think,
at this point than anything they could
say.
>> They can open the gates for their
reserves, but it's not going to be
enough to offset what we're seeing in
terms of a lack of production in the
United States. The strategic petroleum
reserve only has 21 days of consumption,
the lowest in decades. So how much is
that really going to take us in terms of
offsetting this?
>> It's a big headline this morning. Saudi
Arabia has started to reduce crude
output. This according to a person
familiar with the matter. Up next on the
program, Sarah Hunt of Ampi Sax and
Words, Janette Low of Strategus, Kate
Moore of City Wealth, and Ellen Wald of
the Atlantic Council. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
It's a labor market that is okay but not
strong.
>> You may start pricing back in some of
the cuts that we just priced out.
>> If the Fed eases into an energy supply
shock that is prolonged, the curve is
going to steepen.
>> The higher energy prices will be a shock
for American consumers. The inflationary
impact is months out.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg survance starts right now. And
your price action scores look like this.
Equity futures negative by 1% on the S&P
off the lows on the NASDAQ down by 1.2.
On the Russell, down by two percentage
points. We're just off the highs in the
commodity market. crude Brent overnight
pushing 120 right now. Brent crude 106
and up 14% on the session. This headline
crossing just moments ago. Saudi Arabia
starting to cut crude output.
>> This is coming after the UAE as well as
Kuwait as well as Iraq have all taken
similar measures because their storage
facilities have filled up. The reason
why this is concerning to markets is
that once you close an oil facility, it
can take weeks or months if it has fully
been closed to restart. Sometimes it can
take a little bit less. Nonetheless,
this prolongs how long it is going to
take to normalize. At a time when
everyone's wondering just how big is a
supply shock going to be and how long
will it last?
>> 8:30 Eastern time, there's an attempt at
an offset. G7 finance minister said to
hold a call on releasing strategic
energy reserves across the G7. The US
reportedly supporting the idea. Is that
enough to offset the pain that's been
accumulating over the last week?
>> The market was up at $120 a barrel. It
went down to about $103 a barrel when
you saw this announcement. So,
evidently, it moved the needle on the
margin. It only moves the needle if you
believe this is temporary. Right now,
the oil market does seem to think that
this will be temporary in terms of going
back down to $80 a barrel by the end of
this year. It's already higher, though,
than where it was just a week ago.
Nonetheless, at what point does this go
on long enough for people to price in
the pain economically as well as in the
forward curve for oil uh that isn't
currently uh being reflected?
>> Frank crude triple digits around 105.
Coming up this hour, Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods with crude topping
100. Janette Low Strategus as more
countries scale back production and Kate
Moore of City Wealth as fears of a
prolonged war rattle Wall Street. Our
team coverage starts right now with
Bloomberg's Jamai joining us out of
Dubai. Jam, an important headline
crossing just moments ago as we've
discussed. Q8, Iraq, UAE, and now the
big one.
>> This is the big one indeed. Yeah. Saudi
Arabia saying that they started to cut
oil output as storage has started to
fill up. And you will recall over the
course of our reporting over the past
week, they had been looking for
alternative routes to get this oil out
that bypasses the straight of Hormos.
They do have that east west pipeline
that's available to them of reported
capacity of around 5 million barrels a
day. So it could have gone some way
towards mopping up some of the
production that needed to get out. Uh
but they've actually determined that
it's not enough because their storage
facilities have actually started to fill
up. And just to give you the numbers
here, Aramco produces around 10 million
barrels a day. Around 7 million barrels
a day are slated for export. The east
west pipeline can accommodate up to 5
million barrels a day. And the other
thing that you need to think about is
obviously we've flagged a lot the
security concerns about the straight of
hormones, but there's an additional
concern to think about on the Red Sea as
well in case the Houthies also get get
involved in this and start once again
targeting ships and vessels passing
through the Red Sea. So there may be a
SEC security consideration there to
think of. But all in all uh this is just
another massive OPEC producer that has
announced uh halted production or lower
production levels because of these
storage facilities filling up. And it is
not about the damage that is sustained
to these sites. From what we understand,
limited damage has been has been
sustained because of the ongoing attacks
out of Iran. This is simply to do with
storage being filled up and this oil
having nowhere to go. So, as long as we
continue to be in an environment where
the straight is effectively shut, you're
going to hear more and more of these
halts in productions, potentially full
uh full uh halts in productions. And as
Lisa was just saying, it's easier to
sort of trend lower with your production
than to cut it off completely and fire
it back up again because of then
concerns around maintenance and bringing
in extra operators to get pipelines up
and running. And so for the foreseeable
future, it just looks like they will be
focused on producing less as opposed to
fully halting production. But the longer
the situation persists, uh, the more
obviously you're going to see an impact,
a real physical impact on oil supply.
>> Jamaa with the latest out of Dubai.
Jamanna, thank you. Jamanna Betachi
there. Crude right now around 105. Saudi
Arabia cutting production one, Iran
doubling down on hardline leadership.
two and three. The president reportedly
considering a special ground operation
to seize uranium in Iran as well. There
is no sign of deescalation there
whatsoever.
>> And there's no sign of the ultimate goal
for any of the particular parties
involved, which is the reason why oil
prices have steadily marched higher. And
the reason why these headlines that came
out over the weekend left people at 6:00
p.m. yesterday with a view that you have
to send oil prices substantially higher,
at least in the near term, before this
resolves. When Monday morning starts
Sunday evening state side, you know
something bad is happening. Here's the
view on Wall Street. Stocks falling,
crude jumping above $100 a barrel for
the first time since 22. Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods writing the
positives that investors were looking
for a hard to hang one's hat on given
the oil price surge. Sarah joins us now
for more. Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What change with tripledigit crude for
you?
>> I think it changes a lot of things. I
think it's really, as we've all spoken
about many times, it's going to depend
on how long this lasts. the forward
curve does not seem to think that this
is a permanent state. And I think that
what it changes is one the possibility
of an economic slowdown or even going
into recession because higher energy
prices can often cause that kind of an
economic shock. And what happens on on
the earnings front, both to margins and
to spending and to everything else.
Right now, this is a near-term problem.
If it looks like it's going longer, it's
going to change some of the math that
everyone's been looking for for the next
couple of years in terms of earnings.
>> Consumer facing names getting beaten up.
airlines, cruise lines, all getting
absolutely hammered as crude continues
to tick up. Are we at the point of
demand destruction now?
>> I think it's a little early for demand
destruction. I think that there's some
obvious things that are going to happen
as you see prices move very higher in
the short term, but I think from a
longer term perspective, it takes longer
than a couple of weeks of higher prices.
Do we get a couple of months of higher
prices? That's definitely going to hurt
it. And there on the margins, people are
going to travel less. People are worried
about traveling to begin with just
because there's something going on in a
big part of the world that's really
important. And so I think you're
definitely going to see some pullback in
activity and that is in and of itself
slowing things down.
>> Sarah, have you been reluctant to sell
stocks, any stocks in response to this
given the fact that in the past
geopolitics is something that has always
been a short-term event for markets?
>> I think this is yes, I would say I
wouldn't say I'm afraid to sell
anything, but it's more that is this
something that is really a permanent
change and what's your time horizon? If
I needed, you know, I tell people all
the time, if you need money in the very
short term, you should have it liquid.
If you're in there for the long term,
you're going to see a lot of volatility.
We knew coming into this year it was
going to be volatile. We didn't know why
and how volatile it would be so quickly,
but you expect after a couple of years,
especially of such strong equity
performance, that you'll see more
volatility. The question is really going
to be whether or not this sticks or
whether or not this is something that
markets continue to see through and look
through. And I think that there are
other things going on in the background
that are also potentially problematic.
So, it's going to be interesting to see
how that plays out and not interesting
in a good way.
>> Yeah, we see, of course, what's going on
with private credit. we see cracks in
the US economy. I'm just wondering, is
there an inflection point, something
that you're looking for that would
change your view that would make you
materially shift your longer term
outlook for 2026?
>> I think if this continues to go on
without figuring out what the offramps
are. I think that it, you know, it was a
good move to say that we'll globally the
G7 will release some energy because
prices spike so high. That's not going
to solve the problem. The problem needs
to be solved by having some resolution
and having tankers be able to get
through the straighter hormos. Until we
see some path for that, I think you're
going to start to see people get more
and more worried about those longer term
both earnings estimates and just general
economic conditions and the market.
Right now, it's still we're still in
early days. If that really extends, I
think that's really going to be the the
tipping point.
>> Some of that depends on what your
starting point is, what your assessment
of current conditions actually is. And
we've got very different views on that.
Some people think we're okay. In fact,
the Federal Reserve, the top of the
Federal Reserve, Chairman Pow would
insist that things are stable, they're
okay. Others would say things are
fragile. Where'd you come down on that?
One or the other.
>> I think that they are a little bit more
fragile than they look. I think that
you've seen some disruptions in the
labor market. You certainly hear a lot
of rumblings in the labor market about
what's going to happen because of AI in
different sectors. There's a lot of
spending that's coming out of that,
though. So, there are offsets to that. I
think generally speaking, absent this
shock, the economy was doing fairly
well. There were definite pockets of
weakness and you could see that in
rotation in sectors in the market. You
could see major rotation sectors. The
headline indices are still fairly close
to all-time highs, but there's been some
major devastation in different sectors
along the way. This is going to be one
of those situations where depending on
how long it lasts. And this is, you
know, that just going to keep saying
that. We don't know yet what's going to
happen. But on the margin, nothing good
comes out of spiking oil prices this
high and shutting in oil infrastruure.
>> Let's pick a sector. Financials. Lisa
talked about private credit. Blackstone,
then Black Rockck going into the weekend
with a bit of trouble there. Then we've
seen Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs
start to underperform as well. This is
going through the whole sector now and
not just the private market players.
What do you think that's signaling?
>> I think that's signaling some concern
about weakness ahead and some concern
about what are if you're going to have
potential issues in both equity and bond
markets, but you also have this private
credit thing is this would be the top of
the story if we weren't going on if this
would be the top story. This would be
the absolute top story I think if if we
weren't going through what we're going
through right now with Iran because this
is one of those it started out small and
now you're seeing a couple of other
things and then a couple of other things
and that's the kind of things that
market don't like. It's that uncertainty
that markets don't like and investors
don't like when everyone has been sort
of trying to reassure everyone that it's
all okay and then you start to see
things that make it look a little less
okay. So I think that would be a much
bigger headline if we weren't in the
middle of this and that would be
something that would be starting to
worry markets going forward.
>> Yeah. The idea that panic and sort of
retail investors trying to pull their
money and not getting it all back is
very concerning to people. Can you put
these two stories together of the oil
price shock and credit concerns tied to
private credit? The idea that some kind
of increase in oil and decrease in
consumer spending power could catalyze
the fears that people see in credit
sooner than maybe otherwise would take
place. Well, it's interesting because I
think those fears were catalyzing on the
back of expectations of problems in
certain sectors like the software se
sector specifically. But whether or not
the reality on the ground is that they
were as bad as it looked. I think the
problem is more that everybody makes a
decision in one direction. I don't know
that the higher oil prices are going to
make that worse because I don't think
that the credits that people are worried
about are ones that are so tied to the
consumer. And I think that would be the
link that I'm not sure we see yet, but
it doesn't mean that it isn't there. And
certainly people are going to start
looking for that.
>> Sarah, it's always good to see you.
Thanks for being here. Sarah Hunt there
of Vampire Sax and words on private
credit on energy on the economic
backdrop. We have had a payroll shocker.
We've had an energy rupture and we've
got some real cracks developing in
private markets too.
>> I mean the fact that Black Rockck
followed Blackstone in terms of how they
are going to meet redemptions given the
fact that people are concerned about
some of these structural changes would
have been front page news. The fact that
people are seeing these concerns
continue to percolate and yet here we
are.
>> I don't think the energy move though
takes it off the front page. I think it
keeps it there. It exacerbates the
problem. The tightening of financial
conditions you're seeing now across
Europe, in America as well, it's not
going to help matters. In fact,
arguably, it's going to make it worse.
>> It might not be exactly the same story
with software. But it's an even worse
story if it's a broader economic issue.
And the one thing that people have said
is private credit will be okay
fundamentally as long as there isn't a
downturn in the economic cycle. What
could catalyze a downturn in the
economic cycle? oil prices that reduce
people's spending power to a certain
degree that they don't go out to Disney
Worlds. They don't fly to France. And
this is exactly what people are talking
about right now.
>> That's the bare case. That's the demand
destruction off the back of moves like
this. Bren close to 105. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's our top story.
Saudi Arabia has begun cutting oil
production. The country's crude storage
tanks piling up with the straight of
effectively closed to vessel traffic.
The moves follow similar decisions from
the UAE, Kuwait, and Iraq. Elsewhere,
President Trump isn't ruling out sending
US ground troops into Iran. The
administration saying it can achieve its
goals in Iran without American boots on
the ground, but refusing to take the
option off the table. The president
saying, quote, "If we did that, they
would be decimated." And finally, an IED
was thrown outside of the New York City
May's mansion in Manhattan. The violence
erupting during an anti-Islam protest.
The protest drawing an even larger crowd
of counterprotesters who were accused of
throwing the explosive device. The FBI
launching a terrorism investigation
after six people were arrested. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. Up next on the
program, pricing in energy panic.
>> We are suffering high prices not in
natural gas but in oil because it's a
globally connected market. The oil is
there. You're seeing a little bit of
fear premium in the marketplace. Up
next, we'll catch up with Janet Loigas
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
What a start to the week. Equities down
again by 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ 100 down by 1.2. The airlines
getting hammered falling into a bare
market. United Delta trading softer by
3% in the pre-market after dropping
double digits through last week. In the
commodity market, this is what's driving
things right now. WTI and Brent triple
digits. And if you think these numbers
are bad, if you were tracking things
overnight, bring crude pushing 120
through 119 as session highs. And this
came after the disruptions to the UAE as
well as Kuwait after coming after Iraq
in terms of turning off production or
limiting it in response to storage
facilities that were full. Also, the tit
fortat that is increasingly targeting
energy facilities. How much can some
sort of strategic release of uh
strategic reserves truly offset what
we're seeing, which is just a complete
breakdown in supply chain
>> when you start to see Saudi Arabia kind
of gput. And if you're just joining us,
that headline crossing about 30 minutes
ago, when you start to see those
headlines, there's very little that you
can do to offset that at 8:30 Eastern
time when finance ministers get together
and talk about releasing reserves.
>> The only way that people can have
confidence that that actually will stave
off any kind of disruption is if you
have an off-ramp, if you have a sense of
when this can end and when production
can start coming back. Right now, that
just does not seem to be on the table.
So maybe they can announce something at
8:30 that can get people a little more
optimistic on that front. and the
Savannah this morning pricing in energy
panic.
>> We are suffering high prices not in
natural gas but in oil because it's a
globally connected market. We're
communicating with our allies abroad.
The oil is there. You're seeing a little
bit of fear premium in the marketplace
but the world is not short of oil today
or natural gas. We are nowhere near
normal traffic right now and you know
and that that that'll take some time but
again worst case that that's a few weeks
that's not months. So, here's the latest
this morning. Crude surging past $100 a
barrel for the first time since the
Russian invasion of Ukraine back in 22.
The president calling the higher cost a
very small price to pay as optimism for
a quick resolution to the Middle East
conflict quickly fades. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now for more.
Tyler, a lot of people have asked this
question. I'll ask it once again. Why
did we engage in this conflict without
refilling the SPR ahead of time?
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. That's
actually a question that Democrats are
now asking as they call on the Trump
administration to tap the SPR. The thing
is, we've heard from the energy
secretary before that it would cost
billions of dollars in both repairs and
costs to fully replenish that stockpile.
And instead, the administration
maintains that there could be some other
shortterm solutions on the table that
they would uh prefer to tap instead.
That then leads to questions on whether
or not we're going to actually see a
resolution today when the G7 finance
ministers meet, as you've been
discussing on the program. This would
only be the fifth time that this has
happened. And no decision has been made
quite yet. But people familiar with the
matter do tell us here at Bloomberg News
that some European nations are now
concerned that the US is going to push
to pull back sanctions on Russian oil
after we saw that waiver granted last
week to allow India to buy those
barrels. The thing is, as you well know,
the White House is really under pressure
when it comes to energy costs as they
start to trickle down to retail gasoline
prices and we head into the midterms.
Now, John, the energy secretary does
maintain this isn't going to be a
long-term conflict, but no diplomatic
off-ramp appears to be in sight. In
fact, the White House is now threatening
to widen the war. We heard from
President Trump over the weekend saying
the US is now eyeing striking new
targets. And Bloomberg News is reporting
that the president is considering
deploying special oper operation forces
into Iran to extract the country's
highlyenriched uranium stockpiles.
>> And that's what escalation looks like.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Thank you.
Tyler down in Washington DC. Janette
Latigus writing the following. President
Trump can pull out of Iran in three
weeks and gas prices will go back to
normal. The risk is if the conflict
lasts longer. Janette joins us now for
more. Janette, that statement begs the
question if the president if this is
still in the president's hands and if
Iran wants to make this messy, they can
make this messy for quite a while.
>> Absolutely. I mean, this could
definitely be the risk here for the
United States is obviously that this
becomes a much more protracted war or it
also creates civil war and just chaos
within Iran and then within the larger
Middle East region. So there there are
definitely a lot of risks to the
administration here, but I do think that
the administration is really focused on
this four to five week timeline. We do
think that they think that they have a
plan to accelerate uh attacks on Iran to
try to get to their specific goals,
which is getting rid of the weapons that
could be targeted at the United States
and Israel, getting um annihilating the
army of I'm sorry, the navy of Iran, and
trying to then also prevent them from
going after ships in the street of
Hormuz. and also maybe potentially
trying to get some sort of regime change
or at least governance changes going
forward. So I do think there's obviously
some risks but the administration
probably is looking at this still being
a four to five week timeline. We'll
obviously see if that changes and then
what does this look like? They have said
that there is a surge coming that they
will increase their attacks on Iran. So
we'll kind of have to see over the next
week to see well how does this play out
and then how does that change the
timeline going forward. Janette, are
there any independent assessments of
where the administration is on achieving
main principles of that timeline? In
particular, wiping out weapons that
could attack US and allies, as well as
potentially regime change at a time
where we now have a new Supreme Leader
that President Trump has already said is
unacceptable to him.
>> Yeah, I mean, I think obviously the
regime change is going to be the biggest
challenge for the United States and
Israel. And I think you have seen the
United States a little bit walk back
that exact goal for this um military
operation. But you are kind of seeing
the fact that they were trying to they
were focused on getting Iran's air
defenses along the coast um so that they
could then strike deeper into Iranian
territory. They do seem to have achieved
that goal at least particularly um so
far. But I think the big question is
there's a lot of unknowns. We don't know
if Iran has, you know, more missile
capacity that they are still kind of
holding on to. Um, that will be
important. I think that the United
States has been highlighting the fact
that missile attacks and drone attacks
coming from Iran have been down 70 or
80% and they do think that they are
losing firepower, but we don't also know
what actually might still be there. So
there's definitely still this risk, but
I do think the administration sees that
they have made some progress with
getting out certain air defenses, using
up some of the supplies that Iran has
that has been using against the US and
its allies. Um, and also that they're
starting to be able to strike further
and deeper into Iran. So that is a
little bit of some progress towards
these ultimate goals.
>> The US is fighting this war alongside
Israel. How aligned are these two
nations and their ultimate goals?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think there's a I think
the one thing that was important about
why potentially we may have gone into
this is that there was an alignment
between the two countries on the um
actual ability to go after Iran. And
this is a they both I think see this as
an opportunity to really kind of strike
at the weapons that Iran had that it was
potentially using to threaten both of
those countries. Um also trying to go
after certain u you know other pieces
that the the Iran has been trying to do
with its nuclear program. But obviously
we may see some disagreements longer
term. We saw the disagreement over the
weekend about the fact that Israel
struck oil depots in Iran and the US was
opposed to that. We also may see
differences of opinion as to whether or
not we're actually going to get regime
change or would the US be more willing
to accept some other opport uh outcome
versus Israel. So I think there could be
more fractures going forward, but we
haven't seen a lot yet. Um, but
obviously the longer this takes that
could obviously become something that
becomes a bigger risk.
>> Jenna, how much visibility do we have on
what's happening inside Iran right now?
This is a population of 90 million
people, something like that with very,
very complex power structures. As anyone
who's followed that country for a while
will understand, Janette, those strikes
from Israel are really, really important
because that undermines the domestic
support for what is happening. And
that's been an argument of both Israel
and the US for quite a while to try and
get the Iranian people on side to
ultimately topple the leadership.
There's little sign of that right now.
How do those strikes help?
>> Yeah, I think that was one of the main
concerns that the United States had was
that those attacks could actually make
um opposition less willing to go after
the regime and less willing to kind of
rise up in that way. Um, and so that was
why the administration was a little bit
more upset with Israel for going after
those attacks. Um, because they do want
to make sure that there are conditions
where we're not actually helping to
rally the Iranian people behind the
leadership and feeling like they in
particular are being attacked rather
than the regime and the security forces
that hold up that regime. So that is
definitely a risk. Obviously, the other
issue is that we do have these internet
blackouts, which doesn't mean we always
have a full understanding of what is
actually happening within Iran. And that
makes it a little bit more difficult to
know what could be the ultimate outcome.
Obviously, one of the big issues here is
that we don't necessarily have um a good
understanding of could there be an
opposition leader who could actually
rise up and take over in Iran like what
you saw in 1979. The fact that the
Ayatollah was a particular figure that I
think is something that is going to be a
risk going forward and to see if that
ultimate goal can be achieved.
>> Janette, thank you. Janette Lo there
strategus. Thyran is not Caracus and the
son of the supreme leader is not Darcy
Rodriguez.
>> There isn't a sense of a continuation of
power at a time when this is a fractured
leadership in a very complicated
society.
>> Up next, Kate Moore of City Wealth as
the Warner run keeps markets on edge.
This is the price of conflict in
financial markets this morning. Check
out energy Brent 105 briefly pushing 120
a move of almost 20 30% overnight. Right
now 13.4% higher on Brent crude. WTI up
by 14% as well. That sets the tone for
this the equity market pulling stocks
lower on the S&P 500 by around 1%
throughout this morning. down two on the
small caps and in the bond market
pushing bonds down and yields up higher
twos, tens and 30s, twos up by four,
10's up by three. And I keep going back
to the international story pricing in
tighter monetary policy in the UK. In
Europe, the UK seeing a doubledigit move
on a 10-year and up by 20 plus basis
points at the front end of the curve.
>> Starting to price in uh rate hikes, not
rate cuts ahead. Deutsche Bank just put
out a really good piece of research, but
they said historical riskoff moves after
an oil shock, for example, S&P down 15%
generally require at least one of large
and sustained oil price spikes. We're
talking where we are now for a month or
two. Hawkish policy response speaking to
the move that we're seeing in bonds and
then broad macro damage. That sort of
what point do you see demand destruction
start to kick in?
>> And that all depends on the first one
whether this is sustained or not. The
risk of a hish pivot is being priced.
the reality of one yet to be seen. I
don't think central bankers right now
going to rush out and make the pivot.
But the longer it goes on, you start to
see that in the data, that's when things
start to get real.
>> And it matters where you start from. The
fact that inflation in the United States
already is closer to 3% than 2%. We're
going to get some more data points this
week indicates how much inflationary
momentum there already is in the system,
which is only going to pressure a bigger
move simply because we never killed the
inflation beast entirely to begin with.
A 13% move in energy at the heart of
everything of financial markets this
morning as we count you down to the oven
and bow two hours away. Let's get you
some morning movers. Lizzie has more.
Hey Lizzy. Hey John. We have to start in
energy. Oil as you say above $100 a
barrel for the first time since 2022. Of
course that coming back to the Middle
East conflict. And we've already seen
gains for the European energy names the
likes of BP and Shell. That's set to
continue in U the US in the pre-market.
Exon Mobile, Chevron, accidental, all
seeing gains. Flip over and we're also
seeing him and hers up more than 50%
earlier pairing some of those gains now.
But this on the news that it has
resolved its feud with Novo Nordisk.
Novo set to start selling its
anti-obesity drugs on the HIMS platform
and uh this reflects a similar deal that
we saw about this time last year. you
remember uh and it fell through because
HIMS didn't stop marketing and selling
its own copycat medication. So, is this
deal going to get over the line? Traders
optimistic that it will. Just finally,
Live Nation. We saw a red head crossing
the terminal on this stock earlier this
morning. Currently up 8.4% in the
pre-market, but the red head being that
Live Nation is nearing a settlement with
the Justice Department on the federal
antitrust lawsuit. Now, this accuses
Live Nation of illegally monopolizing
the live music industry. It goes all the
way back to the Obama administration,
which of course allowed Live Nation to
acquire Ticket Master. But ever since
that trial started on March the 2nd,
we've had these settlement discussions
hotting up. And now, Live Nation up in
the pre-market announcement expected in
the coming days. John
>> Lizzie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Some of the movers out there to
watch into the oven bell on our radar
this morning. One of our top stories, G7
finance minister set to discuss a joint
release of crude reserves as prices
surged to four-year highs. The potential
draw down helping to pair some price
gains after jumping to nearly $120 a
barrel overnight. Elsewhere, President
Donald Trump downplaying the spike in
crude on social media, writing, quote, a
very small price to pay for peace and
safety. This is Iran's newly named
Supreme Leader signals the Islamic
Republic won't back down. And finally,
the president considering a special
forces mission to seize Iranian uranium.
According to diplomatic officials, US
and Israeli intelligence are searching
for the stockpile. UN atomic inspectors
last verifying its location nearly 9
months ago.
>> This is the enriched uranium that could
potentially be transformed into weapons
material. And this is really the reason
why there is concern by the likes of the
International Atomic Agency. Unless you
get people on the ground, you don't know
how quickly or how close they are to
actually forming some weaponry. This
goes to the question of what is the
ultimate goal. Is it to seize the
uranium? Is it to get back to
negotiating table with respect to making
some deal? Or is that over? Is that not
on the table anymore? And there only
will be wholesale grabbing of this
uranium in order to take the threat off.
>> This approach from the president Bremo,
I think, is worth going over again and
again. It's so different to the
president's traditional playbook to go
into Caracus or to go and bomb the
nuclear sites in Iran that we saw 12
months ago, targeted, limited in nature.
This feels so open-ended, and it feels
like they're still mulling the options
right now that yes, there might have
been a plan, but that plan's out of the
window. Now we're talking about doing
something different. And the escalation
also, and I'm pleased you brought this
up moments ago, the escalation over the
weekend of Israel to go after Iranian
energy infrastructure cannot be
overstated. That is an escalation in
this conflict, not a deescalation.
>> And it's interesting that the United
States was opposed to that move. Israel
bombing Thrron's oil supplies. It does
kind of question how you're going to win
over the hearts and minds of people
living there given the fact that they're
experiencing oil rain. There also is an
issue of well all of a sudden you've
made this fair game. The US also
damaging certain desalination plants.
There reports of that in Iran. This also
amping up the game in terms of what's
fair game to go after. So, a lot of
questions about the off-ramp as well as
the goals. You're right. The goalposts
seem to be moving in real time, which is
a reason why no one has a sense of what
this plan is and what we can say mission
accomplished. We know that's a terrible
term in terms of historical precedent.
Nonetheless, we're just looking for a
sense of when you can actually calm
things down.
>> If you were just tuning in, welcome to
the program. And let's say you heard all
of that and you guessed where equities
were right now. I don't think you would
have guessed the S&P was only down 1%,
but that's where the S&P is this
morning. The NASDAQ down by about 1% as
well. We're down by 1.7 on small caps.
The Russell 2000 underperforming. Let's
keep it there on the equity market as
Iran's choke hold on the straight of is
disrupting the flow of energy sending
prices soaring above $100 a barrel and
Saudi Arabia the latest to cut output.
That headline crossing in the last hour.
Kate Moore of City Wealth writing this.
We expect markets to remain volatile
until we get clarity around both the
measure of success for the US and Israel
and the subsequent offramm. Joining us
now, Kate Moore. Kate, welcome to the
program. Stocks are down 1%.
>> Can I call that resilient? Is it fair to
say that that's pretty resilient given
the risk we're talking about?
>> Well, I mean, I think John, what we're
seeing is the resilience in the US large
cap space. And that's largely because we
have to understand where positioning and
sentiment was before this strike. Um,
and that was that US large caps were a
less attractive or less exciting asset
class or, you know, part of the equity
market than others. Um you saw the
biggest moves so far in the small cap
space you know in non- US equities
places where there was a significant
move over the course of 2025 much of it
driven by multiple expansion and not
earnings and the US large cap space the
S&P 500 which has been treading water
for 6 months you know um is holding up
relatively well because people had
already taken down a little bit of their
exposure there and it's frankly a higher
quality part of the market so there were
a lot of things in terms of positioning
and sentiment in play at this moment
that I think are leading the US large
caps to outperform in the equity market
and frankly our view is that is likely
to continue that US large caps are the
safest place in that risk asset
>> within those large caps what's the
sector preference with that in mind
>> yeah so here's the thing we need to
separate out kind of the what's cyclical
what's going to be uh prone to the shock
and what might be secular in this case a
lot of people had faded their risk in
the tech and comm space and we
understand why huge concentrated
positions we've talked about it so many
times questions around the
sustainability of AI capex hopefully
people took some of that fear off as we
went through first quarter earning
season but you know the whole point is
is that people were taking down some of
the risk in some of the secular growers
I think those still offer better um
quality and frankly better likelihood of
being able to sustain their earnings
momentum even in more kind of a
geopolitical and economic shock
environment But I do want to mention
something on the cyclical side because
we know there is consistent um demand
for industrial metals. We've talked of
course about copper and other things
going into the AI buildout and capex
story. Uh I think we'll see even if
there's a significant amount of price
volatility across the resources complex
that that the uh opportunities there
remain quite strong in the material
side.
>> Kate, have you changed anything about
your recommendations to clients on the
heels of the conflict in Iran? Have you
suggested to them that they shift
anything other than just hold pat, stay
with the what's working?
>> Yeah. No, Lisa, I haven't at this point.
You know, we're just obviously one
trading week into it and we've been
watching price action. We feel like
we're in pretty good shape in terms of
the way our portfolios are constructed,
particularly because we have a focus on
resilience and we have a focus on high
quality. Now though, I'll be honest, the
first part of this year, there were
times where it felt a little
uncomfortable because we didn't want to
own the small caps for the same reasons
that other people were. We didn't see
the same kind of quality trade there and
we continue to believe that, you know,
the US should be a significant anchor of
your equity exposure. And this was, you
know, a little painful when other
markets were outperforming. But right
now, building for resilience, building
for quality, uh, really is is doing very
well for us and our clients. The one
thing Lisa I just want to point out
though is that you know we keep on
looking for areas of dislocation. Are
there massive draw downs in some of the
things that we like over the medium term
and you know can we use some of the cash
and some of our you know tactical um
skills to really take advantage of these
drawdowns. The trouble is because we
have no sense for how long this conflict
is going to last, how it might broaden
and what the reaction function might be
from countries not just in the Middle
East but around the rest of the world.
It feels like we we should kind of sit
on the sidelines for a moment here uh
observing price action before we take
moves. There's also a sense that if the
Fed or the ECB or the Bank of England
starts to hike rates in response to the
inflationary shock, that will also start
to change the equation given the
backdrop of growth that isn't in
recession but isn't exactly going gang
busters and there's a feeling that
financial conditions have already been
tightening. What kind of risk does that
pose given that most people's base case
was one or two rate cuts this year from
the Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah, that's right. Lisa, you might
remember actually we've been out of
consensus a little bit in talking about
how sticky inflation has been. Honestly,
I thought people were going to throw
tomatoes at my head in the fall when I
was first talking about this, you know,
with our clients and basically saying,
"Hey, look, we're seeing many components
of both CPI and PPI and PCE um moving at
a a rate year-over-year that is
uncomfortable and is likely to keep, you
know, overall inflation levels
elevated." And I joked for some time,
hey, you know, if I was a FOMC voter,
it's not clear to me, frankly, that I
would vote for rate cuts uh over the
course of the fall. Now, we're in a
situation where we already had that, you
know, price pressure from goods.
Obviously, we'll be watching CPI very
closely this week. Uh and services
inflation had stayed sticky and now
we're going to have this shock. I think
it's very fair for the market to be
asking these questions. Um what is the
next policy move from all these central
banks and will there have to be a
reaction? But we know these interest
rate moves are blunt tools, right? And
I'm not sure that raising rates alone is
going to to really change the supply
picture that we have from oil that's
leading to higher prices. So, um I'm not
banking on a whole bunch of of hikes at
this point, but I do think it's fair for
people to take cuts off the table.
>> That's the difference and it's still
key. Kate, thank you. Kate Moore there
of City Wealth. What will central banks
do? I don't know. But people were
comfortable with the idea that cut
interest rates a few months ago.
>> And right now that comfort is gone. Not
only that, but you're also looking at
the potential for rate hikes being
priced into the ECB. I keep going back
to this Deutsche Bank note because it's
talking about how hawkish policy
response is one way you get that huge
draw down in risk assets because
ultimately that has a material effect on
projected growth ahead and that is not
something particularly the euro area can
afford. In anticipation of that,
financial conditions are tightening
right now. Don't need to wait for the
hikes. It's happening right now. You can
see in the yield curve across Europe, in
the UK, in Germany, and elsewhere.
>> And that's the reason why it's really
going to be conundrum because it's going
to already have a self-fulfilling
prophecy on the expectation of this.
They're also tightening from credit
perspectives as well because of some of
the concerns about private credit. So,
it's kind of a double whammy there.
>> Peter Sheriff Academy with this to say
this morning. The downstream problems
are real, especially in Asia. gasoline,
diesel, jet fuel, all the chemicals.
Lots of people are discussing exactly
that. And he goes on to say, "As
facilities get taken offline, the
restart to fully operational is weeks,
not days, and finishes on this. Things
like a global SPR release might help.
They're not a solution." And we've all
got to have that in mind at 8:30 Eastern
time, of course, about 47 minutes from
now when these finance ministers get on
the phone and discuss the potential of
releasing reserves. It all comes down to
when you get an off-ramp to stop uh the
conflict and to get ships going through
the straight of Armuse once more. It's
not going to be putting a band-aid on it
that's going to really get people that
much more comfortable.
>> Crude this morning hired by 12 to 13%
around 105 on Brent. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide. Here is
your Bloomberg brief. The US ordering
non-essential American diplomats in
Saudi Arabia to leave the country. The
move marks Washington's first ordered
departure since the war with Iran began.
It follows the death of a US service
member who was wounded in an attack on
US troops in Saudi Arabia on March 1st.
Elsewhere, Australia's government is
assessing a request from Gulf nations
for defensive military support against
attacks from Iran. The foreign minister,
Penny Wong, declining to say exactly
what Australia might provide and
pledging transparency if a decision is
made. And finally, the New York Times
reporting federal authorities searched
two homes in Pennsylvania after a
homemade bomb was thrown outside the New
York City Mayor's mansion over the
weekend. Two suspects are in custody
after the device was thrown by
counterprotest to an anti-Islam
demonstration. City officials are
expected to update the investigation at
9:00 a.m. Eastern later this morning.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. Up
next on the program, mitigating an
energy crisis.
So you don't think Navy escorts of
vessels are necessary?
>> There could be that the early tankers
probably will involve some direct uh
protection by the US military, but most
important is to defang their ability to
threaten these ships.
>> We'll get into the commodity market next
with Ellen Wald of the Atlantic Council
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching
Bloomingberg Surveillance.
So this is how the pieces of the puzzle
are coming together so far this morning.
If you can't get the energy out of the
straight of Hormuz and you're starting
to bump up against storage capacity, you
cut production. We've seen that from
Iraq to Q8 to UAE and now this morning
to Saudi Arabia. G7 finance ministers
getting on the phone in about 42 minutes
from now to discuss an emergency release
of energy reserves. With that in mind,
crude higher by double digits. Brent
104, WTI 102. In the equity market,
stock softer lower. We're down across
the board on the S&P negative 1.1%. I
mentioned the airlines. They're in a
bare market. The cruise lines hammered
down 20% since this war started.
Norwegian, Carnival down across the
board. A lot of the transportation
sector did not hedge against oil as time
went on because those hedges proved
costly. So there is a rush to hedge
against this. It's a one-two whammy. On
one hand, people don't want to travel.
On the other hand, oil prices
skyrocketing, increasing input costs. It
is not a good recipe.
>> See it in stocks, you see it in bonds.
Check it out. Bonds down yields up
across the curve. Tame moves, mild
moves, muted stuff state side relative
to what you'll see abroad. We're up
three four basis points at the front end
of the US curve. The front end of the UK
curve yields are higher by 24
basis point. Never mind 10. Check out
twos. And that is about monetary policy.
And monetary policy is on the back foot.
>> Right now the UK and the euro, the
continental Europe really are facing a
much more severe energy shock and single
mandate central banks that are going to
have to respond to inflation. Raises a
question. How do you deal with both the
demand destruction coming from the oil
shock with the idea that fiscal uh
appetites are going to have to go
towards supporting people's bills at the
same time that you have central banks
tightening financial conditions again
this is not a recipe that bodess well
for risk assets which is a reason why
you've seen uh European stocks have a
full correction since the February highs
>> let's talk about energy and savannah
this morning mitigating an energy crisis
>> I think in the relatively near term
you're going to see their capac capacity
so low that we'll see more normal ship
traffic return to the straight of
Hormuzz.
>> So you don't think Navy escorts of
vessels are necessary?
>> Yes, there could be that the early
tankers probably will involve some
direct uh protection by the US military,
but most important is to defang their
ability to threaten these ships. So
here's the latest this morning. Oil
prices surging past $100 a barrel. The
effective closure of the straight former
forcing Gulf producers to reduce output.
Alan Wald of the Atlantic Council
writing, "It is within the US's power to
mitigate the emerging energy crisis.
There is still time to prevent it, but
the clock is ticking." Ellen joins us
now for more. Ellen, this feels like a
crisis already. What would you call it?
>> Yeah, we're absolutely in a full-blown
energy crisis, I I think that the
initial stages of it, um, if if tankers
are supposed to wait until they've
neutralized every Iranian drone, we're
going to be here for a long time. I
think they need to take some steps to
get tankers moving even if they haven't
completed the military missions and and
destroyed all of the ballistic missiles
and all of the drones. Uh and and there
are steps they can take to to help get
this going, including military escorts,
but also reroute the shipping lanes
towards the UAE and towards Oman and
away from Iranian waters. That would
make it more difficult for them to
actually get the drones there. It would
make it easier to detect them. I mean,
the these are some fairly simple things
that they could do um you know, to help
make shipping less dangerous.
>> Ellen, at 8:30 Eastern time, there's
going to be a call with G7 finance
ministers. They're discussing releasing
reserves. What difference is that going
to make?
>> I think it will help with oil prices,
but understand, you know, countries that
are members of the IEA, they are
required to have about 90 days worth of
oil imports stored. Uh some countries
have more. Japan for example has you
know 250 days worth of of oil stored but
this is going to deplete their reserves
and it's not necessarily going to help
countries that don't have reserves. I
mean think about nonG7 countries. Think
about Pakistan for example and and other
more emerging markets. They don't have
these reserves. India for example. So,
while releasing the reserves may help
take some of the pressure off of u what
European countries and some uh more
advanced Asian economies are facing,
it's not going to help necessarily help
these other countries uh if they can't
get oil out of uh out of the Gulf
either.
>> Ellen, you've studied the Saudi
leadership for a long time. You're
intimately connected with the family and
the different political shifts. Do you
have any insight into how on board Saudi
Arabia is as well as the other Middle
Eastern nations with this effort by the
United States? Is the US still
considered an ally in this particular
effort?
>> Well, I think that that the US considers
Saudi Arabia a strategic partner in
general. Saudi Arabia absolutely thinks
of the US as probably more than a
strategic partner, though uh they can be
a little bit upset when the US uh
doesn't necessarily see them as as as
close an ally. I do think that that
Saudi Arabia and the UAE and all of
these countries that have been
physically bombarded by Iran are pretty
much united uh you know in this effort.
But I do think that their patience as
you know this this military effort kind
of dredges on without movement of
tankers in the Gulf, their patience is
going to wear thin and they are going to
maybe uh you know put some pressure on
the US to either wrap things up or help
them get things moving. You know there
are things the US can do and uh it seems
that they're they're not um they're not
jumping on it. They don't see it as as
immediate concern as these other Gulf
countries do. Remember, oil and and gas,
that's their livelihood. Well, for the
most part.
>> I just want to break in. You said that
there are things that they could do,
like what?
>> Well, I do think that military escorts
are the first. They can also work to
reroute the shipping lanes. Like I said,
the current shipping lanes take tankers
into Iranian waters about 10 miles away
from the shoreline. That makes it
incredibly easy for Iran to send drones
at ships. They can that that's not the
only place ships can go in the Straight
of Hormuz. It's 30 miles wide. They
don't have to be right up next to Iran.
And through a coordinated effort, they
can move those shipping lanes closer to
the UAE, closer to Oman, and and help
ships have some buffer between Iran and,
you know, and where they're going. And
that that could happen. That's that's
entirely feasible. It just seems like no
one's making the effort to get it done.
>> Ellen, this is a tense time. Can we
finish on a light-hearted question? Are
you on a cruise or a luxurious tanker?
>> I'm not I'm not on a cruise. No, I'm I'm
I'm actually in a hotel in Fort
Lauderdale looking at the ocean.
>> Just seeing the ocean in the background
trying to figure it out. Just seeing how
seriously you were taking today's
interview. Ellen, thank you. Ellen Wald
at the Atlantic Council. Ellen would fly
in on a chopper to a tanker, right?
Doing it live.
>> Completely. I'm doing some on the ground
research and right now things are tense,
things are stable in this particular
region, but over there a tanker is Yeah,
look, that was an incredible backdrop.
Should we all be so lucky?
>> Yeah, I know things are very tense this
morning. Up by 12% so far on Bren 104,
WTI round 102. Coming up next, we'll
catch up with Sevita Subramanium of Bank
of America. We'll speak to the former
Kansas City Fed President Esther George.
Sarah House of Wells Fargo, Alicia
Lavine of BNY Wealth. with futures right
now negative 1% on the S&P 500 and bonds
worldwide selling golf bonds down yields
higher this two-year in the UK higher by
basis points live from New York City the
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance up
next
The market has been driven by what's
happening globally.
>> We could break out to the low side on
equities.
>> Broader risks to energy supply have to
be monitored and likely priced
>> despite this jump that we've seen in
oil. We are going to have that backdrop
continuing around earnings growth.
>> The underlying fundamentals are still
pretty positive and people want to own
this equity market.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and
Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Suran starts right now in the
price action. Your scores look like
this. Well off session lows. We were
down by something like 2% on the S&P
overnight. Now down just one of the
Russell down by 1.9 in the commodity
market. These moves right here pushing
120 overnight on Brent. Brent back to
about 104. still higher by 12% after
gapping Kaya big time through last week.
The main event now for us in the next
hour 8:30 Eastern time. There is a call
with G7 finance ministers discussing
releasing emergency energy reserves to
do something to offset a major rally in
energy prices.
>> This has been done about five times
before, including twice after the 2022
invasion of Ukraine by Russia. a
question of how much this will actually
do when it comes to lowering oil prices
given that ultimately this is a supply
shock and some people are saying the
worst supply shock and supply chain
disruption that we've seen in the oil
industry going back in modern history. I
mean there really is a question of can
you really offset this just simply by
opening a small tap.
>> Think about the last few days the
escalation is increasing not decreasing
and what you're seeing in commodities
right now the output is being cut. It's
not bouncing back. And you can look at
the headlines of the last 1 hour or so.
Saudi Arabia cutting output. This
headline just moments ago. NATO
intercepting ballistic missile that
entered Turkish airspace. That does not
sound like any kind of deescalation to
me this Monday morning.
>> It's dragging more participants in.
Right. The fact that NATO, this is, I
believe, at least the second uh
intercepted ballistic missile targeting
Turkey. A question of how far this can
go and what the offramps are. Some
questions to be answered. Are some of
these oil producing nations turning off
the taps or are they just limiting
production? There is a difference in
terms of weeks versus days to turn it
back on. Also, can you do more to try to
get the shipments through other channels
like Ellen Wald was just saying? A
question here. I was looking at our top
live blog and top news. One Saudi
Arabian tanker made it through the
straight of Hermoose. The fact that that
was news gives you a sense of where we
are.
>> It will take it at this point, right?
given what things have been developing
and which direction they've been guiding
over the last week or so. We'll take
that at this point. Look at the European
equity story. Real underperformance.
We've got the Euro stocks 50 down by
1.8%. You've got the underperformance in
Europe in the European bond market as
well. I've talked about this repeatedly
throughout this morning with pricing in
tighter monetary policy. UK yields
higher by 20 basis points at the front
end of the curve. Twos right now surging
and you see that across the curve in
Europe. There is a profound inflationary
shock and people are expecting monetary
policy makers to potentially have to
respond to that with even two rate hikes
this year from the ECB. The Federal
Reserve still pricing in no hikes, but
definitely pricing out some of the cuts
that had previously been priced in. At
what point does that add uh insult to
injury at a time when there already is
demand destruction coming from oil
prices?
>> Stocks on the S&P this morning down 1%,
the open and bow about 87 minutes away.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Sevitas of Bramanium of Bank of America
as the equity market sell-off deepens.
We'll speak to the former Kansas City
Fed President Esther George with the
central bank facing growing inflation
fears and Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth
with oil prices surging to fouryear
highs. We begin this hour with stocks
sinking as the spiking crude is rattling
global markets. Savina Subramanium of
Bank of America writing, "Geopolitical
shocks usually mean buy the dip, but
with what? Cash is depleted. Key risks
to the S&P index are less sideline cash
and higher allocations. Sevita joins us
now for more. Sevita, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You saying things are pretty fragile
right now.
>> Uh they feel like it. I mean, I don't
know if we're setting ourselves up for a
really deep bare market, but I do think
that it this doesn't feel like the
beginning of a great year. And in fact,
it kind of rhymes with 2022. Remember
the beginning of 2022? Everybody was
really bowled up. It was going to be a
fantastic year for equities and then we
had war breakout and here we go again.
So I think it's just another it's a it's
another wrinkle in the liquidity story.
I mean you've got we've got this year
where we're still penciling in Fed rate
cuts and this is in the backdrop of
massive inflation reappearing. So I
think that right now doesn't feel like
this the setup that we were expecting at
the beginning of the year.
>> You're not super bullish at the index
level, but has the sector preference
shifted given the shock in energy over
the last week?
>> I think so. We're overweight energy
which you know I think that's that's
likely to continue to work. Um but we
have to be nimble there. And then, you
know, financials is one sector where I
worry about just the credit cycle
hitting those stocks and potentially
just private lending, you know, being
more contagious than we're expecting.
But, um, you know, we're overweight
consumer staples and that's one sector I
worry about a little bit. One of the
reasons we upgraded was we thought that
the administration was going to be
focused on affordability and quelling
inflation and that seems to be the
opposite of what's actually happening.
So I think that that's one sector we
need to really watch carefully because
typically is hurt more by inflation. Um
we're underway consumer discretionary.
I'm happy with that call. I think the
consumer is not going to do as well this
year uh in terms of spending on wants
over needs. So, I think that, you know,
we're in a we're at a point where you
want to play the stagflation playbook.
Little known fact, one of the best
performing indices during the 70s
stagflation was large cap value, which
I've liked for a really long time, and I
think it's almost more reasonable.
>> Hold on a second. Why do you think this
is analogous to more of a 1970s style
stagflationary shock?
>> Well, okay, look, I mean, maybe it's not
perfectly in, you know, everything
rhymes. So I think part of what we're
seeing now is an environment where the
consumer might be struggling a little
bit. We're going back to more of a
manufacturing economy rather than just
tech and asset like companies and we
have some inflation surprises. I don't
think we're going to see you know vulkar
like inflation. But I do think that we
are in an environment where the surprise
is that inflation is moving in the
opposite direction. Rates are moving in
the opposite direction than folks were
expecting this year. You also said that
cash is depleted. Yeah. Can you explain
given the fact that people would look at
the money market funds and say, "Well,
there still is almost eight trillion
dollars there." True. What do you mean
when you say that?
>> So, you know, you're right. The money
market there's still 6.5 trillion, close
to 7 trillion. But I think that money
hasn't really moved despite the fact
that the Fed has been cutting interest
rates. So, I don't know what gets that
money to flow back into the market.
Where we do see depleted cash levels is
in uh mutual funds. If you look at
mutual fund cash balances, institutional
investors are now at the lowest levels
we've seen in the history of our data.
And I think it's because they were
forced into the market because of all
this, you know, great stuff happening in
2025. And on top of that, they have big
outflows last year. So they, you know,
they don't have that cash cushion to add
exposure on the dips. And that's what I
worry about is, you know, geopolitics
buy the dip. We've all heard it. We
write about it every time this happens.
But I don't see a lot of liquidity on
the sidelines today. Even individual
investors are, you know, increasingly
more bullish than our advisors and our
surveys. So I think that it's a really
unusual time in terms of just kind of um
catching up to this bull market. Two
years ago, everyone was expecting a
recession. today. Boom. That's the the
consensus call. Boom economy. So, you
know, I kind of I wonder about
expectations versus reality this year.
>> You've written about this. I want to ask
you this question. How have private
public market strategies evolved in the
last few years? And as private market
money increasingly looks a little bit
locked up and tense and fractured, pick
your word. What does it mean for the
strategy to public equities?
>> Yeah. Well, I think that that's one kind
of technical risk to the S&P index is
the fact that this is the most crowded
ticker in the world. And if you look at
asset owners, they've basically legged
into owning private equity and S&P index
funds. They no longer own stock pickers
or fundamental investment portfolios.
They're either in the index or in
private equity. And if anything happens
that problematizes your returns or your
ability to sell your private portion of
your portfolio, you're going to be a
force seller of the S&P index. And if
everyone's a force seller of the S&P
index at the same time, how liquid is
it? Right? These are the the liquidity
scares we've seen in the past. And I I
mean I'm not I don't see this as a 2008
style liquidity crunch, but I do think
there are pockets of real crowding that
could get shaken up. And
>> are you seeing signs of that emerging
right now or is that just a risk on the
horizon? I mean, we're seeing it happen
maybe slowly um quickly on certain days,
but I think you're seeing it with tech
with, you know, mega cap tech, long
duration um you know, all the really
crowded growth stocks in the S&P 500
have sold off pretty demonstrabably even
though their earnings have been okay.
So, you know, it's kind of what we the
setup was super high expectations. these
stocks are still delivering, but they're
not necessarily crushing expectations as
much as we saw. So, I think that
position is is getting shaken out a bit.
But when you look at other areas like
just the S&P overall, I think the
biggest risk is we haven't seen a down
market with like a protracted down
market. We've seen a couple of fast bare
markets, but there's been no question
for investors that buying the index
isn't a good idea, right? It's always
been a good idea. Every year you've
wanted to buy the index. What happens
when the index doesn't do as well? I
think that could breed outflows. You
know, it's it's a it's a it's a new
theme that investors aren't necessarily
expecting.
>> Can I just finish by gauging sentiment
through your conversations with clients?
Yeah. How much push back do you get to
this pitch and has that changed as the
weeks have progressed?
>> I mean I think that now we're getting
more uh more buy in but you know at the
beginning of the year I think uh there
was a lot of bullishness on tech. There
was a lot of you know why bother buying
anything else if tech is this the growth
story still. Um so I I wonder if that
buy the dip mentality will manifest
itself in tech. That's where I see the
biggest appetite to add exposure. And
it's kind of like post 2000, right?
After March of 2000, you saw these
little rallies in tech because folks
were like, "Oh, you got to buy it on the
dip." And then it took maybe a couple of
years for for investors to give up.
>> Sevita, always good to see you.
>> Great to see you.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you. Sevita
Subraman in there of Bank of America.
Speaking of tech, I don't think we've
mentioned it. I think software was up
every day last week. IGV the must track
software ETF at the moment. Yeah, people
seeing at least something that they
thought might be undervalued and was
sort of independent from the oil shock.
The conversation you guys were having
about the structure between private
equity being lock up and sell what you
can. We're seeing that in gold too,
right? The fact that gold prices are
down, it's sell what you can. And it
gives you a sense that there is some
sort of liquidity mismatch right now
going on that speaks to potentially a
broader structural readjustment. One
more dimension as well, maybe you can
explore this tomorrow. But sovereign
wealth funds, particularly those in the
Middle East,
>> I wonder how much pressure is going to
be on them in the coming months if this
continues. If you can't sell the energy,
if you breach storage and you have to
cut production, what are you going to
monetize?
>> Yeah. Are you going to have a force
majour and say maybe I'm not going to
pay for that project in Tennessee? And
that's something that the Financial
Times has been reporting on that
potentially a number of uh countries in
the region might pull back from some of
those commitments. Stocks this morning
down by about 1% on the S&P 500. The up
and about 1 hour and 17 minutes away.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg brief. Iran naming the son of
the assassinated Ayatollah Alakammeni as
its new supreme leader. State media
reporting the 56year-old winning a
decisive vote from Iran's assembly of
experts. The choice was quickly
criticized by the President Donald
Trump. Elsewhere, the US ordering
non-essential American diplomats in
Saudi Arabia to leave the country. The
move marks Washington's first ordered
departure since the war with Iran began.
It follows the death of a US service
member who was wounded in an attack on
US troops in Saudi Arabia on March 1st.
And finally, the New York Times
reporting federal authorities searching
homes in Pennsylvania after homemade
bomb was thrown outside of the New York
City May's mansion. The incident
occurring at an anti-Islam protest.
Counterprotest accused of throwing the
device which failed to detonate. City
officials expected to give an update on
the investigation at 9:00 a.m. Eastern
time. And that right there is your
Bloomberg brief. Up next, the morning
calls plus the former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George as the central
bank is facing growing inflation fears.
That conversation just around the corner
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
I think we're still at peak uncertainty
on tariffs. So in that sort of context,
now you throw in the dynamics with with
with higher oil prices that really
changes the the outlook for headline
inflation. So the Fed is going to be
very very focused on what happens on the
inflation side while paying attention to
the labor market. But I think inflation
is going to take priority.
>> That was Sebapper of Soccer Chen
following a sell-off in the global bond
market following a major move in crude.
As we count you down to the opening
bell, equities declining but off the
lows well off session lows down by 0.9%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ down by 0.9.
The underperformance on the Russell down
by 1.5. Much of the research I've read
this morning as expected. This a little
different from Mike Wilson of Morgan
Stanley. We think we're closer to the
end of this rolling correction than the
beginning. We remain constructive over
the next 6 to 12 months. The pace of
increases in crude and the dollar will
determine how long volatility persists,
but US equities are in a favorable
position versus their international
counterparts.
>> Yeah, Miss Levka over at JP Morgan
reiterating that and having a similar
view this morning, saying that right now
there are areas that look oversold and
people should maybe start buying. a
question of whether this is a US
phenomenon or more broadly if this is
something that people can engage with
with the expectation that this will be
shortlived. Again, we keep going back to
the timeline and how crucial that is.
>> What did we talk about last week? And it
wasn't a judgment about one group being
wrong and one group being right. Just
the difference between how the equity
players were talking about this moment
and the commodity experts. The equity
players were waiting for that buy the
dip moment conditioned by the experience
that when things get tough, the
president backs away. The commodity
players were looking at real stress and
downstream effects of what's happening
through the straight of what will happen
to production and what's developing in
Asia with refiners over there under
intense pressure at the moment. And at
the moment, if you were going to pick on
one group that's been right and another
group that's been wrong at the moment,
the energy experts have absolutely
nailed the risk here and the risk is
materializing.
>> Yeah. And now it's just a matter of how
long this goes on. And you mentioned
Jordan Rochester from earlier this
morning. And just to repeat what he
said, this may be a war, but it's also
perhaps the biggest energy supply
logistics crisis we've ever seen in
modern history. If that is prolonged,
then it will start to affect risk
sentiment, and that's what people are
waiting to see.
>> Futures just off session highs were
negative by 0.9% on the S&P. That's the
price action here in your morning calls.
First up, TD Cowan Kaiser's price target
on United Airlines and other major
carriers, noting it's hard to envision
margin expansion this year without a
rapid decline in energy prices. that
name down another 2.5%. Your second call
from Barclay's lowering its price target
on Oracle to 230 expecting margin
pressure from upfront cost in the AI
buildout. And finally, RBC Capital
downing Dow to outperform believing
market tightness could lead to a margin
uplift. The latest on Dow there, I
should say, was an upgrade to the stock
from RBC Capital. Dow in the pre-market
high by 0.2%. Let's turn back to our top
story. Surging oil prices sending bondo
tire across the globe. Investors raising
bets central banks will keep rates on
hold. The former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George writing with oil
prices surging over $100 a barrel,
inflation is sure to move higher. The
Fed will want to look through this price
pressure, but it will likely stay their
hand for entering rate cuts or
entertaining rate cuts. The former Fed
president joins us now for more. Esther,
welcome to the program. Let's just get
to that statement and your experience,
too. I always want to lean on that. you
lived the 22 energy shock. Can you frame
for our audience the similarities, the
differences between this moment and that
one?
>> Well, good morning, Jonathan. Yeah, I
think I think the uncertainty that we've
talked about for some time is one of the
characteristics here that we have to
remember. We have been relying heavily
on a consumer that has faced significant
price shock coming out of the pandemic.
This is a consumer that has felt the
impact of the tariffs and they also have
felt the uncertainty associated with a
job market that has shifted uh
significantly. And so when we rely on
the consumer as we do here in the US
that becomes a real focal point I think
for trying to understand now we have
added a new shock this gasoline price at
the pump. We understand that diesel
prices will be affected which of course
will feed into the cost of
transportation and other things and I
think it creates a real point not just
of uncertainty but I think heightened
risk around consumer spending and growth
as we look ahead.
>> When you were at the Federal Reserve
through the 22 shock, household balance
sheets were arguably much stronger and
the labor market was much tighter. Do
you think differently about how this
price shock and the energy market will
work its way through the economy?
Yeah, I think you hear a lot about the
the K-shaped economy and I think that
will come into the four now. We have
really been relying on a group of
consumers that can power through this.
But you can only stress weaker household
balance sheets that have again had the
benefit of having jobs. That has been
really I think one of the tailwinds
here. But there is a breaking point I
think. And so I think the Fed will have
to be particularly uh focused on
thinking about how that consumer is
going to be positioned today to be able
to look through this kind of additional
price pressure.
>> Esther, that could go one or two ways.
On one hand, you could make an argument
for easing policy to try to give lower
income consumers uh a better scenario, a
better backdrop to meet this price
shock. On the other hand, you could say
the Fed has a role to play to combat
inflation. Which side of the equation do
you fit on?
>> Well, the Fed has been focusing on the
labor market and on weakness at um I
think the risk of inflation even before
this oil price shock. Now, I think the
Fed and you hear them increasingly
talking about the risk of inflation.
They have allowed it to extend out for a
period of time that now puts them in a
very very difficult position. I think in
understanding how they're going to weigh
their policy risk whether they continue
to think they are as well balanced uh
coming into this March meeting I think
is going to be something to listen for
here because you are going to have
headline inflation for sure. We'll be
getting more numbers in this week to see
that. And I think the calculus around
keeping those inflation expectations in
the long run anchored is going to be a a
point worth talking about.
>> Rates traders are pricing in rate hikes
over at the ECB as well as the Bank of
England. Do you think that as this
progresses, if it does continue for a
longer period of time, that that's going
to be a scenario that's reflected in how
the Federal Reserve is being priced?
Well, I think obviously a little bit
different for the US to think about that
and the Fed as it contemplates its its
uh updated dot plots, but I do think it
stays their hand on being able to uh
suggest that they are looking to rate
cuts uh but maybe in a pause mode. I
think this kind of environment will
really remind them that inflation target
has to be credible and they have to keep
focused on that even if their tools
right now are are in conflict. They are
looking at a job market that may be
stable but has shown signs of weakness
while they have been looking at
inflation that continues not only to be
persistent but as we've been talking
about is now going to show some upward
pressure. Esther, would you describe
this labor market as stable?
>> You know, I I consider it stable in the
sense when you step back and look at the
unemployment rate, which is our best
gauge, I think, of how that labor market
looks, it does mask what is underneath
that surface of a lot of moving parts. I
think we're beginning to see the real
impact of some of the immigration policy
hits here. We're beginning to see the
uncertainty, I would argue, play out
where businesses are happy to hire for
positions they feel confident about, but
they're not going to move uh hard and
fast relative to uh the growth levels
that we've seen. So, I think it's a
tentative labor market in my view, even
though we continue to enjoy a relatively
low unemployment rate.
>> Esther George, always appreciate your
time. Thanks for jumping on for us. the
former Kansas City Fed president, an
individual who lived the energy shocker
22 at the Federal Reserve talking about
this Federal Reserve and a meeting that
takes place on the 18th. That's a week
away next Wednesday. That feels like a
lifetime away. And if this conflict is
still ongoing with no sign of an
off-ramp or deescalation, all bets are
off for the next nine months. This is a
reason why CPI and PCE core PCE two
metrics that are coming out later this
week on Wednesday. Uh and then after
that uh Friday is going to be really
important to set the tone if those are
hot readings. Does that leave the Fed in
an even worse position given the oil
price shock that we're seeing unfold?
>> So we've got a 30 minutes that you're
going to want to track. Sarah House of
Wells Fargo is going to join us in just
a moment looking ahead to the inflation
data that Lisa is talking about. Plus
Danny will have your morning mover as
defense names rising in the pre-market.
Loheed Martin is up 40% so far year to
date. We'll get into that in just a
moment. Plus, we'll track a G7 finance
minister's call on releasing energy
reserves. That's next. This is
Bloomberg.
It has been a bruising session
worldwide. Equity futures stay side
negative 0.8% 8% on the S&P 500 on the
NASDAQ down by 0.9 on the Russell down4
on the Euro stocks 50 in Europe right
now negative 1.5% and in Asia very
exposed to the energy story oil and oil
product the NK Japan down by more than
5% the Cosby down by six off the back of
these moves Brent crude 10285 that looks
like a big gap higher from Friday's
close because it is we're higher by 11%
it is nothing compared to where we were
trading overnight
>> yeah some 29% % higher, $120 a barrel.
We were talking about earlier in the
trading session before a meeting of
international leaders coming together to
decide whether or not to release some of
their strategic reserves that capped how
much prices were rising. The conclusion
of that just potentially even moments
away.
>> That call is about to commence and when
we get the headlines from that call,
we'll bring them to you as we count you
down to the up and about 60 minutes
away. Let's get you some morning movers.
Danny has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Another part of this world
very exposed to energy prices are
airlines. Those United and Delta down at
least two and a quarter of a percent
this morning. The entirety of the index
has now entered a correction as of close
on Friday, down 22% from their peak last
month. Jeffree says that for every 5%
rise in jet fuel prices. These two
companies are going to see a 5 to 10%
deterioration in their EPS. Deutsche
Bank calling this an existential threat
to the airlines. They're not the worst
performers though. The worst performers
in the S&P 500 over the past week since
war broke out are the cruise line
operators. They're dealing with the same
dynamics. Higher fuel prices and
concerns about the consumer. Carnival
down another 3% this morning. Norwegian
cruise lines that's down two and a half.
Now the sector that's been benefiting
again this is to no surprise are the
defense sectors energy as well. But
taking a look at defense this morning
RTX uh and Northrup Grumman up 1.8% in
the pre-market. John
>> Danny Burka with the update. Danny,
thank you. Looking forward to the
program. Danny and Matt Miller guiding
you through the opening bow in about 29
minutes time. Equity futures
negative0.8%.
Busy week on deck headlined by CPI data
on Wednesday and if this conflict
continues that CPI data could look very
different in the next few months.
Bloomberg's Mike McKe has more. Good
morning Mike.
>> Good morning John. It is inflation week.
You guys were talking about that with
Esther George. And there are a couple of
inflation numbers that are important.
CPI we get on Wednesday, but we start
today with the New York Fed's
expectations index. What do people think
about the possibility of oil prices in
the future? Maybe it's too early because
when these surveys wrap up, we hadn't
quite gotten into the war the way we
have, but it's something to watch. Also,
NFIB has inflation numbers in it. The
small business folks on Tuesday uh
mentioned CPI on Wednesday. Remember, it
carries with it as well some uh
distortions from the government shutdown
that may make it come in lower than it
otherwise would and it probably isn't
going to pick up anything from the war.
Uh but Thursday we get jobless claims,
trade and housing starts. Uh jobless
claims the one everybody watching and
then I I put this as a separate one
Friday because Friday's huge. Friday we
get PCE inflation and that's the one
that matters for the Fed. We also get
income and spending, durable goods, GDP,
second revision, and Michigan sentiment.
Now, that's going to be something to
watch because that will capture part of
the war. Not a whole lot of it, but will
capture part of it. And we'll see what
Americans think about not only
inflation, but about their overall mood
and whether it has really hurt them. The
good news that I have for you though is
that this is the blackout period and we
have no Fed speak now until the 18th.
We'll be able to uh sit back and just
watch the data without worrying what the
Fed's going to do. And I know you were
talking with Esther George about this,
but the Fed's not going to do anything
uh next Wednesday because it's going to
be too early for them to have enough
data. But after that, as you said, all
bets are off.
>> Matt McKe, I wonder if that's better
news for them than it is for us at the
moment. The fact they're in a blackout
period. Michael, thank you. Michael
McKe, go back to their last statement at
the end of January. Available indicators
suggest that the economic activity has
been expanding at a solid pace. Job
gains have remained low and the
unemployment rate has shown some signs
of stabilization. Inflation remains
somewhat elevated. Can you copy and
paste that next Wednesday?
>> I think if they do, then they'd be in a
vacuum with a very different view of the
world because since that report, you've
seen 92 jobs eliminated. In the latest
payrolls report, you've seen inflation
expectations in the short-term spike on
the heels of oil prices going above $100
a barrel. The scenario looks completely
turned on its head to the worst case for
them, which is stagflationary shock.
>> Speaking of turning things on its head,
this headline just crossed. I want to
bring it to you. Zilinski, Ukrainian
leader, 11 states have requested Ukraine
security support. How quickly that story
has reversed.
>> Well, Ukraine has had the opportunity to
experience modern warfare. And when I
say modern warfare, it's about dealing
with drones and drone warfare. There has
been a mismatch in pricing between
drones that cost a couple hundred
dollars to produce and missiles that
cost a million dollars to produce,
blowing them up. And they, one of the
things that the Ukrainians have done is
to figure out ways to disable some of
those drones. And so they're helping the
United States with their efforts. So how
much the tables have turned. What this
does for the Ukraine Russia conflict is
beyond my ability to really game out
scenarios. On one hand, you've got
Ukraine in a better spot with the United
States and with other allies. On the
other hand, Russia suddenly can sell its
oil. So, I mean, how do you square this
to understand exactly where we are in
that equation?
>> It's really, really complicated. That
headline just catching my eye, crossing
the Bloomberg right now. Let's turn to
the main event this morning. There is a
call set to take place any moment now
between G7 finance ministers discussing
the potential to release energy reserves
as crude overnight blasted through
triple digits and approached 120.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Hey Tyler.
>> Yeah, hey John. Good morning. Well,
we're waiting for this call to commence
and reportedly it does have the US's
backing as we look to see if there's any
potential to bring down and boost the
supply of oil. Now, we know that the US
would be looking for some ways to help
American consumers as the price of oil
trickles down to retail gasoline. And
the White House has been playing defense
on trying to reassure Americans when it
comes to the health of the economy. We
heard just last week from Secretary of
State Marco Rubio that President Trump
would convene a council, including his
energy secretary and the Treasury
Secretary on ways to help keep domestic
prices low, but we haven't gotten an
update from there. There had been
reporting that the White House was
potentially going to ask Congress for a
gas tax holiday, but that hasn't emerged
either. Then we've seen some other uh
points put on the table, including
President Trump last week floating uh
the insurance uh for those ships
crossing the street of Hermuz, also a
potential naval escort. And then lastly,
as you were just discussing, we saw that
loosening when it comes to a waiver for
India to start to buy Russian barrels.
Importantly, people familiar with the
matter tell us that heading into this
meeting, John, some European nations are
concerned that the US is going to ask
for a loosening on sanctions when it
comes to Russia barrels just as we're
starting to see some of those severe
impacts hit the Russian economy.
>> Brent crude this morning still higher
10265 but off session highs. Tyler
Kendall there with the latest. Tyler,
stay close as we wait for some of those
headlines to cross regarding that
meeting, that conversation, discussion
between G7 finance ministers. Sarah
House of Wells Fargo joined us now for
more. Sarah, all of a sudden it feels
very different, but how much has changed
for you and the team with your outlook
following this move in energy?
>> Yeah. So, I think a lot has changed. So,
certainly the inflation backdrop. So, we
get CPI later this week, but I think the
February numbers are are already old
news. So, we're looking for just the
move we've seen already if if sustained
this month, you could see you could see
gas prices close to four $4 a gallon.
And so you're talking about inflation
close to, you know, three and uh three
and a quarter, three and a half% already
in March and in April. So I think it's
it's a big difference in terms of the
picture of the consumer. So expecting
that to be rather resilient this year
with help from some of the the tax cuts,
but those that that benefit is
essentially wiped out, I think, with
some of the moves we've seen in in oil
prices.
>> A lot can change between now and March
18th. March 18th, of course, the next
Federal Reserve meeting. But let's
assume that meeting was today. Could
they copy and paste that statement from
January or have things changed that much
for them as well?
>> I don't think they could. I think
they're they're going to have to
downplay that that idea about the the
stabilization that we've seen. I don't
think it's completely gone out the
window. If you look at where the
unemployment rate is, it's it's back
where it was in in September and and
you've seen relative to to when they met
in in January, it hasn't moved that that
much. But I think where you're
continuing to see the the weak hiring
backdrop and still if you look at
unemployment on a year ago basis, it's
it's still trending up. So I think
there's more reason for them to be
nervous about the the labor market
picture. And then of course you have the
inflation picture going going the wrong
way now. So hard to say that it's only
somewhat elevated when you you're going
back up above 3% here imminently.
>> Sarah, this feels like a stagflation
moment and this is something that a lot
of people have raised. What's the Fed's
stagflation playbook?
So the traditional playbook is is to
look through these these negative supply
shocks and focus on on what's happening
in terms of also the the demand side.
Think about okay if you raise the prices
once that increases the level but that's
not necessarily a sustained increase in
in inflation. The problem of course for
the Fed is that they've had negative
supply shock after negative supply shock
leaving us with inflation above their
target for for five plus years now. And
so I think they have to be a little bit
more sensitive to that upward thrust on
inflation coming from this. But it's
it's really tricky given that I think
the the consumer is in in a worse
position than where we saw them back in
in 2022. So I think right now it's it's
a wait andsee game. I think they can
still try to look through the spike in
in energy, but it's going to be harder
to to cut through, I think, just given
that they do have that that we have seen
inflation elevated for so long. Sarah,
it's hard to get a handle on just how
quickly financial conditions already are
tightening regardless of what the Fed
does. And I'm talking about long end of
the yield curve in the United States, in
Europe, in the United Kingdom. I just
wonder how much that adds stress to an
already potentially fragile consumer in
the United States, whether that alone is
making you reassess what your growth
profile for 2026 looks like.
>> Yeah, it certainly doesn't help if if we
see tighter financial conditions. I
think where I'm more worried about is
just that immediate inflationary pass
through to to the consumer where
gasoline isn't one thing that they can
easily cut back on. Sure, there's maybe
some discretionary driving that you can
see consumers pair down, but I think it
by and large that this is going to be a
stress on their inflation profile. This
is coming at a time when if you look at
income x transfer payments, that's
already in in real terms close to flat
over over the past year. And so I think
this is is really the added strain on on
the consumer that I think is is making
it difficult for them to maintain that
that pace of spending that we've seen
especially given you know where markets
are right now. You're I think there's
some questions over how much of that
that boost from the wealth effect we'll
get going forward compared to what we've
had over the past year or so.
>> Precisely. Sarah, thank you. Sarah House
of Wells Fargo. Energy bills were
already already going to be pretty steep
particularly in the Northeast with this
move. You've got the additional gas
increase, gas spike as well on top of
that. If you were hoping the tax refund
story would contribute to a cyclical
bounce, and I certainly was. I was
hoping that would be the case. Those
hopes have taken a hit with this action
over the last week.
>> It's going to go to paying for how much
it costs to fill up the tank. And this
is where it comes to demand destruction.
It might not happen as quickly because
of the extra cash from this boost, but
that won't go towards some of the
consumer discretionary that a lot of
people were hoping for.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. We've got stocks set up
like this. We're negative about 1% on
the S&P 500. Not too dramatic given
developments overnight, particularly in
the commodity market. For Brent crude
and WTI, as things stand, we are higher
by 11 to 12%. Still triple digits, but
about $17 off the highs overnight, which
is pretty crazy.
>> It just kind of makes me wonder what
people are looking at. They expect this
to be short-lived and they expect some
sort of measure from releasing strategic
petroleum reserves to sort of stave off
any increase in pricing in the near
term. Let's see if it sticks. Let's hear
what we hear from this call.
>> The opening bout just around the corner.
Still waiting for headlines from that
call with G7 finance ministers
discussing the release of emergency
reserves. In the meantime, let's give
you an update on stories worldwide. Here
is your Bloomberg brief. NATO defense is
intercepting a ballistic missile fired
from Iran that was heading towards
Turkey. It marks the second NATO
interception over Turkey in just the
last week. Turkish leadership already
warning Iran against actions that could
expand the conflict further. Elsewhere,
the United States ordering non-essential
diplomats in Saudi Arabia to leave after
US service member wounded last weekend
died overnight, bringing the US death
toll to seven. Iran says more than,300
people have died so far. Elsewhere, the
president not ruling out sending US
ground troops into the country. The
administration saying it can achieve its
goals in Iran without American boots on
the ground but refusing to take the
option off the table. The president
saying quote if we did that they would
be decimated. That is your Bloomberg
brief. Up next we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus Alicia Lavine at BMY
Wealth drops by with oil prices surging
to 4year highs. That conversation up
next.
geopolitics by the dip. We've all heard
it. We write about it every time this
happens. But I don't see a lot of
liquidity on the sidelines today. even
individual investors are, you know,
increasingly more bullish than our
advisors and our surveys. So, I think
that it's a really unusual time in terms
of just kind of um catching up to this
bull market.
>> That was Sevita Subramanium with Bank of
America. Not bullish at the index level
at all. Looking for something like 7100.
I say not bullish considering where
everyone else is. Looking for a move to
75 to 8K on the S&P last night felt like
capitulation in the energy market. Is
this what capitulation looks like in the
equity market with futures down by 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ down by 1.2 on the
Russell down by 1.8?
>> Yeah, we're about 4% from all-time
highs. The answer is no. This is not
what capitulation feels like. And part
of the reason why is because even in the
oil market, there is an expectation that
this will be short-lived. This isn't
going to go on for months and months.
When that gets challenged, if that gets
challenged, this picture is going to
change. Frank crude up by close to 13%
in today's session after pushing 120
overnight. As we count you down to the
opening bow, here's the trading diary
for the week ahead. 4:30 Eastern time.
The president delivering remarks at the
GOP members issues conference. Look out
for that. Tomorrow, earnings from Cole's
Wednesday CPI data. Plus, you will hear
from the Fed vice chair of supervision
Mickey Bowman. So, look out for that
too. On Thursday, Dollar General
earnings plus another round of jobless
claims and the US trade balance. on
Friday. Core PCE durable goods orders
plus um consumer sentiment which if gas
prices continue climbing at this rate
that could change very quickly.
>> It is a pretty direct correlation. Gas
prices up, sentiment down. Watch that to
be reflected in this survey.
>> Let's stand down our top story. The
price of crude hitting triple digits
overnight for the first time since 2022.
Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth writing,
"Markets are signaling a temporary
supply shock, not economic or financial
crisis. Our base case is volatility now,
normalization later. Alicia joins us now
for more. Alicia, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What's the path to normalization look
like?
>> So I think you need more panic in the
markets. So what you saw the in the oil
market early this morning at Brent up
near 120 125. You need you, as you point
out, the S&P is down 2% from the
all-time high. So So oil up 50% in the
week since the strikes and the S&P down
2%. Even emerging markets in
international down 7% from the high is
not the capitulation. So when this when
this military action was not over in 48
hours, right? And the market still has
somewhere in the back of the mind that
oh so uh the administration is going to
cry uncle at some point. So this is
going to be quick. I suspect at this
point you're going to have to see that
rap that quick sharp downdraft to get it
out of the system with oil at you know
120 and then we probably move on the
other side of this on the other side of
this you are you are in a well supplied
world on the energy side so you have to
get through this now whether it's a week
or two weeks I would be concerned about
two months and then we would change our
view here we would change our view if
this went on more than a month or so
because we have Because then because
then inflation starts getting priced
into everything into food into consumer
products on the industrial side.
>> Then the story's changed
>> and then the story's changed because
then you do actually bring in the Fed.
But at at this point if you look at
what's going on militarily,
I'm no longer a military strategist. But
>> sure,
>> but you know the drones and missiles are
down 80 to 90% from where we were Monday
morning a week ago. So you now have this
decentralization
which perhaps is annoying but may not be
as effective as we move on. So if you
think back are you in a place where 3 to
four weeks from now somebody can can
claim victory probably but again this is
about duration and this is about time
unknown from here we would assume
normalization later.
>> At the same time then do you see
opportunities or do you think it's too
early to buy the dip like JP Morgan and
Morgan Stanley are talking about? So
there's definitely definitely
opportunities here. I mean the most
fascinating thing is if you had
reversion to the mean everywhere in
every asset class and within the S&P as
well. Gold is down 3% from this. The
dollar is up 2%. Emerging markets down
7%. You know NASDAQ is down one and a
half%. So when you think about what we
came into at by the end of February
where serious you know uh underpricing
of US markets versus rest of world and
the dollar very weak and then all of a
sudden you get this reversion software
is now up 15% from the lows you know the
the the uh semis software uh comparison
is now reversed so you got reversion
everywhere I think there will be great
opportunities here I just I just think
that the market hasn't quite priced in
if you're having like a panic in the oil
market, you need to also have the panic
in the equity market to say, "Okay, all
in the
>> the reason why I'm asking this is
because everyone's saying there will be
there will be." That's the problem,
right? So, but at what point, right? I
mean, it's sort of this interesting
thing and yet it's not ever getting
there, I guess, because people are all
expecting it to be a great buying point.
I mean, what is going to be the trigger
one way or another? I like I think you
have to kind of probably get to 6,500 on
the S&P here, which I think is probably
likely only because the if if the energy
if we're we're keeping with energy
prices over a hundred for a week or two,
at some point we're going to have a a
reaction to that. But again, we see it
as temporary. Now, what's the risk? What
I just said, everybody thinks the
administration is going to have to claim
victory at some point if oil prices stay
over 100 for long enough. And that the
risk is everybody's expecting some sort
of backtracking and then of course you
get some sort of financial contagion. We
don't see it yet. We don't see it yet.
But this is kinetic war and and things
can change. We have not changed our
asset allocation. We have not changed
our view. But we are being very flexible
in how we look at things.
>> Can I just finish on what is temporary?
Triple digit crude is temporary. $90
crude is temporary. $80 crude is
temporary. Do you think we actually go
back to where we were? That's really my
question this morning. Even after a
period of deescalation, does this energy
market go back to where it was or has
something changed because of this
development conditioned by the Chinese
who got this right, who stockpiled
energy for the last 12 months just in
case something like this happened?
Doesn't everyone else need to do the
same thing even when this normalizes?
>> Again, this is about duration, right?
What's your time frame here on the other
side of this with Venezuela and Iran out
of the sort of axis of evil as it used
to be called? You know, we're in a we're
in a better supply.
>> Oh, you think this leads to a bearish
outcome ultimately for crude?
>> No, I think it leads to a bearish for
crude and bullish for consumers and
bullish for industrial and bullish for
markets overall. Yes.
>> So, there is a moment where there is a
tipping point.
>> There's a there's a tipping point at
some point. Can't tell you when that is,
but you know, if you look out, let's
call it a year, then we're in a better
place.
>> Okay, Alicia, good to see you. Lots to
think about. Alicia Lavine of BNY
Wealth, not the only one who considers
this moment that way that ultimately
things have changed and maybe they
change for a more bearish outcome for
crude compared to where we were before
this conflict.
>> Well, and this is something even the
president has raised himself. The idea
that if you do have more stability in
the region, should this lead to some
sort of resolution, you actually have
more production. And guess what? the US
is going to be producing that much more
because when prices stay above a certain
point all those oil rigs can start
turning on the tap. So it's going to be
an interesting dynamic with a lot of
whipsaws ahead.
>> Of course, Jeff Curry of Carlile sees it
completely differently. It's a very very
different view on what this moment means
for this energy market.
>> A structural insurance premium risk
insurance premium based in the fact that
shipping on seas suddenly has new risk
and you have to start to look at that
geopolitics uh degree in a different
way. It's it's something that we keep
coming back to. I would love to talk
with him more about that.
>> What's it what is it about spring and
Sunday evenings when it comes to
financial markets?
>> Regional banking crisis, right?
>> Say can I just say I feel like it's been
every Sunday night since we have started
2025. So I guess on one hand, what is it
about Sunday night that always gets me
glued to my terminal?
>> I think I said years ago, the year
begins in March.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, everyone puts out these
forecasts looking ahead to the year
ahead. January, everyone gets together
and talks about it. You get to March and
everything resets.
>> Yeah.
>> And resets pretty quickly.
>> Here we are and doing the same thing.
>> Here we are. The coverage continues
tomorrow. David Tinsley of Bank of
America, Kevin Foley of JP Morgan,
Abigail W of UBS, Jim Karen of Morgan
Stanley from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Looking forward to
tracking these major ruptures with you
all week from New York City. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.